Blaze and Satanus are fictional human/demon siblings appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. They are the children of Shazam. Blaze debuted in Action Comics #655 (July 1990) and she was created by Roger Stern and Brett Breeding and first pencilled by Bob McLeod. Satanus was created by Brett Breeding and debuted in The Adventures of Superman #493 (August 1992) by Jerry Ordway writer and Tom Grummett penciler.

Fictional character biographies
Blaze and Satanus are the human/demon hybrid children of the wizard Shazam and a demoness (name unknown).

Blaze
thumb|120px|left|Blaze and Black Adam standing over Shazam as seen in The Power of Shazam! #10 (December 1995).Art by Jerry Ordway.
Blaze is involved in the creation of Superman's enemies the Silver Banshee and Skyhook. A red-skinned demoness with horns, she disguises herself as Metropolis nightclub owner Angelica Blaze in order to steal souls. Superman follows her to Hell to fight for the souls of Jimmy Olsen and Perry White's son Jerry (who, in fact, was the son of Perry's wife Alice and Lex Luthor). Superman manages to save Jimmy Olsen, but Blaze succeeds in killing Jerry White, whose selfless sacrifice saves his soul.Action Comics #655 (July 1990). DC Comics.

At one point, Blaze clashed with Jared Stevens.Fate #12. DC Comics.

Satanus
thumb|120px|left|Satanus as seen on the cover of The Adventures of Superman #584 (November 2000). Art by Mike S. Miller.
Satanus is the brother of the demoness Blaze. Satanus resembles a traditional demon, with large horns that protrude from the front of his head and dark red skin. He wears a heavy Roman-style helmet which buries his face in shadow. Blaze and Satanus fight each other for possession of Blaze's domain, using Superman as a pawn. Satanus has an Earthly identity and disguises himself as Collin Thornton, the publisher of Newstime magazine, who had previously hired Clark Kent as editor.The Adventures of Superman #493 (August 1992). DC Comics.

Underworld Unleashed

Blaze and Satanus are two of the many supervillains involved in the Underworld Unleashed crossover event. Both are pawns in the demon Neron's plans to give many of the DC Universe's supervillains and superheroes their heart's desires in exchange for their souls or for completing a task for him.Their appearances in the crossover event are, in approximately chronological order, Fate #13 (November 1995), Fate #14 and Underworld Unleashed: Abyss-Hell's Sentinel #1 (both December 1995), Primal Force #13-14 (November-December 1995) and Underworld Unleashed #3 (late December 1995). DC Comics.

Day of Vengeance

Satanus reveals to Superman that he is Collin Thornton when the Spectre arrives in Metropolis as part of his mission to destroy all evil magic during the Day of Vengeance miniseries as part of Alexander Luthor Jr.'s plot.Action Comics #832 (December 2005). DC Comics.

Reign in Hell and afterward

Blaze and Satanus are major characters in the Reign in Hell miniseries. In this story, they have become the rulers of Purgatory and lead a rebellion against Hell by offering "hope to the hopeless", which has never happened before. They are opposed by Neron, other demons and the magical superheroes of the DC Universe.DC Universe Special: Reign in Hell #1 (August 2008) and Reign in Hell #1-8 (September 2008-April 2009). DC Comics.

Blaze contacts Mary Marvel, offering to restore her lost powers in exchange for killing Freddy Freeman so that she can have his powers. Mary appears to go along with it, seemingly poisoning Freddy; however, when Blaze arrives, Freddy gets up and fights her, eventually impaling her on an iron statue and using his lightning to send her back to Hell. Now, Blaze seems to be interested in manipulating Osiris.Shazam! (vol. 2) #1 (January 2011). DC Comics.

Satanus sends the Justice League to Hell, where the League thwarts Satanus' plans to get the nine pieces of Dante's mask. Satanus attempts to use the mask to become all-powerful, but is prevented by Plastic Man, who is possessed by the mask. The mask is then destroyed by the combined efforts of the League and Zauriel helps the League escape from Hell.Justice League of America 80-Page Giant 2011. DC Comics.

The New 52
In 2011, The New 52 rebooted the DC universe. Blaze is shown to be an inmate at the Block. During the fight between Supergirl and Lobo, Blaze was accidentally freed.Supergirl vol. 6 #20. DC Comics.

Powers and abilities
Blaze and Satanus are both experts at maleficium.

Other versions
An alternate version of Blaze and (presumably) Satanus appear as creations of Lex Luthor to use against Superman in Superman: Red Son.Superman: Red Son #3. DC Comics.

See also
List of Superman enemies

References

External links
 DCU Guide: Blaze
 DCU Guide: Satanus
 Superman Homepage: Lord Satanus

Category:Comics characters introduced in 1992
Category:Comics characters introduced in 1990
Category:Characters created by Roger Stern
Category:DC Comics demons
Category:DC Comics supervillains
Category:DC Comics fantasy characters
Category:DC Comics characters who use magic
Category:DC Comics hybrids
Category:Fictional half-demons
Category:Fictional duos
Category:Superman characters
Category:Sibling duos
Category:Captain Marvel (DC Comics)

de:Schurken im Superman-Universum#Blaze und Satanus