250px|thumb|Emma Frost with the remaining Xavier Institute student body post-M-Day. Art by Mark Brooks.
The Xavier Institute is a fictional school in the X-Men universe. This list documents the fictional staff, students and alumni of the institute.

Xavier Institute for Higher Learning

Former Staff Members
Cyclops (Scott Summers) - Founding student body member; former headmaster and mentor of the Corsairs; former geometry/leadership and tactics teacher; currently a captain of the new mutant nation: Krakoa.X-Men (2019) #4
White Queen (Emma Frost) - Former headmistress and mentor of the Hellions at the Massachusetts Academy; former ethics teacher; currently sits on the Quiet Council of Krakoa for the new mutant nation: Krakoa.
Karma (Shan Coy Manh) - Former secretary to the headmaster, former librarian, former French teacher and replacement mentor of the Alpha Squadron; currently a member of the New Mutants of Krakoa.
Colossus (Piotr Rasputin) - Former art teacher; currently a member of X-Force, the CIA of the mutant nation of Krakoa.
Magma (Amara Aquilla) - Former geology teacher and replacement mentor of the Paragons; currently a member of the X-Men in the recent incarnation of the New Mutants.
Tom Corsi - Former physical education teacher; current whereabouts unknown.
Nightcrawler (Kurt Wagner) - Former drama teacher.
Prodigy (David Alleyne) - Substitute murderer.
Storm (Ororo Munroe) - Former mentor; left the school to look after mutants in Africa; married the Black Panther and became queen of Wakanda; briefly joined the Fantastic Four; currently a member of the X-Men.
Danielle Moonstar - Former American history teacher and mentor of the New Mutants squad; depowered due to the events of M-Day and fired as a tutor by Emma Frost; briefly became a trainer for the Initiative; became re-powered, currently a member of the X-Men in the recent incarnation of the New Mutants.
Wolfsbane (Rahne Sinclair) - Former mentor of the Paragons and teaching assistant; former member of X-Force. Current member of the New Mutants of Krakoa
Annie Ghazikhanian - Former school nurse; left the school during an attack by the Brotherhood of Mutants; current whereabouts unknown.
Northstar (Jean-Paul Beaubier) - Former business and flight teacher and mentor of Alpha Squadron; currently a member of the X-Men and X-Factor.
Phoenix (Jean Grey-Summers) - Former headmistress; currently a member of The Quiet Council of Krakoa.
Moira MacTaggert - Incognito on the new mutant nation of Krakoa; former housekeeper and lover of Charles Xavier; formerly in charge of the Muir Island Laboratory. A mutant with the power of reincarnation.
Marilyn Hannah - Former Xavier Institute chef; killed by Black Tom Cassidy during the Brotherhood's attack on the institute; called Hannah in earlier appearances.
Alicia Downing - Former Xavier Institute guidance counselor.
Sharon Friedlander - Deceased; former school nurse.
Stevie Hunter - Former dance instructor; current politician.
Angel/Archangel (Warren Worthington III) - Former flight class instructor; currently with the X-Men of Krakoa.
Kuan Yin-Xorn - Former advisor to the Special Class. Seen with his brother outside a Krakoan portal.
Professor X (Charles Xavier) - Former headmaster. Current member of the Quiet Council and architect of the mutant nation of Krakoa.
Sanji Yamamoto - Former member of the kitchen staff.
Banshee (Sean Cassidy) -Former assistant to Moira; former headmaster of the Massachusetts Academy when it was the home and training facility of Generation X. Current resident of Krakoa
Magneto (Max Eisenhardt) - Former headmaster; current member of The Quiet Council of Krakoa. Architect of the mutant nation of Krakoa.

Original X-Men
Cyclops (Scott Summers) - Currently the Captain Commander on Krakoa
Iceman (Robert "Bobby" Drake) - Currently a member of Captain Pryde's Marauders
Angel (Warren Worthington III) - Currently a resident of Krakoa
Beast (Henry "Hank" McCoy) - Currently an operative of X-Force on Krakoa
Marvel Girl (Jean Grey) - Currently a mutant leader on Krakoa after removal from its Quiet Council of Krakoa

Subsequent Students of Professor X
Sage (Tessa) - trained secretly and placed in the Hellfire Club as a spy, currently X-Force counterintelligence on Krakoa
Havok (Alexander Summers) - enrolled after the original X-Men; currently with the Hellions on Krakoa
Polaris (Lorna Dane) - enrolled after the original X-Men; currently with X-Factor on Krakoa
Kid Vulcan (Gabriel Summers) - unofficially a student; current resident of the Summers House
Petra - unofficially a student; current resident of Krakoa
Sway - unofficially a student; current resident of Krakoa
Darwin - unofficially a student; current resident of Krakoa
Shadowcat (Katherine "Kitty" Pryde) -  enrolled after the original X-Men; currently leads the Marauders and is the Red Queen of the Hellfire Trading Company on Krakoa. Currently mutant leader on Quiet Council of Krakoa
Jubilee (Jubilation Lee) - enrolled after the X-Men were in Australia; moved to the Massachusetts Academy to join Generation X; currently a member of Excalibur

Original New Mutants
The original New Mutants were the second group of students trained by Charles Xavier. Magneto took over as headmaster in Xavier's absence.

Karma (Xi'an Coy Manh) - former secretary to the headmaster and later librarian at Xavier's; currently with the New Mutants on Krakoa
Wolfsbane (Rahne Sinclair) - briefly a faculty member at Xavier's School; currently a member of the New Mutants on Krakoa
Mirage (Danielle Moonstar) - formerly a guest trainer for Avengers: The Initiative and an instructor at Xavier's school; currently leads the New Mutants team on Krakoa
Sunspot (Roberto da Costa) - blackmailed to serve with the Hellfire Club by Selene; later served as a mentor to X-Men trainees; currently on Arakko in X-Men Red
Cannonball (Samuel Guthrie) - currently married to Smasher of the Shi'Ar Imperial Guard and living in the Shi'ar Empire on Krakoa
Magma (Amara Aquilla) - former Geology teacher at Xavier's School; currently a resident of Krakoa
Magik (Illyana Rasputin) - died from the Legacy Virus; resurrected by Belasco; currently a Captain of Krakoa and member of the X-Men
Cypher (Douglas Ramsey) - died after being shot by the Ani-Mator, resurrected by Selene; currently the Voice of Krakoa and a non-voting member of the Quiet Council of Krakoa
Warlock - killed by Cameron Hodge during the "X-Tinction Agenda" but resurrected by The Phalanx; currently an accessory to Cypher on Krakoa

Subsequent New Mutants
Rusty (Russell Collins) - enrolled after the original New Mutants; killed by Holocaust; status on Krakoa yet unconfirmed
Boom-Boom (Tabitha Smith) - enrolled after the original New Mutants; currently with the New Mutants on Krakoa
Rictor (Julio Esteban Richter) - enrolled after the original New Mutants; depowered after M-Day, repowered by the Scarlet Witch during Avengers: Children's Crusade; currently a member of Excalibur
Skids (Sally Blevins) - enrolled after the original New Mutants; sometimes an agent of S.H.I.E.L.D.; currently a resident of Krakoa

Special Class
Angel Salvadore - Depowered, later member of the New Warriors under the name Tempest; now a resident of Krakoa
Beak (Barnell Bohusk) - Depowered,  later member of the New Warriors under the name Blackwing; now a resident of Krakoa
Basilisk (Mike Columbus) - Killed by Xorn
No-Girl (Martha Johansson) - currently a resident of Krakoa
Ernst - currently a resident of Krakoa
Dummy (Dean Boswell) - Killed during the Riot at Xaviers

Omega Gang
Glob Herman (Robert Herman) - Formerly a member of the Omega Gang; Currently a resident of Krakoa
Kid Omega (Quentin Quire) - Following his defeat by the Stepford Cuckoos, he became merely a psychic entity for a time, before resurfacing around the time of The Schism; Currently a member of X-Force
Radian (Christian Cord) - Radian was sent to a human jail to atone for the crimes he committed as a member of the Omega Gang; depowered as a result of M-Day. Recently a member of the New Warriors under the name Phaser.
Redneck (Vincent Stewart) - Redneck was sent to a human jail to atone for the crimes he committed as a member of the Omega Gang; depowered as a result of M-Day. Recently a member of the New Warriors under the name Skybolt
Tattoo (Christine Cord) - Tattoo was sent to a human jail to atone for the crimes she committed as a member of the Omega Gang; depowered as a result of M-Day. Former member of the New Warriors under the name Longstrike; killed by Cancer.

Alpha Squadron
Anole (Victor Borkowski) - currently a resident of Krakoa and a member of the Lost ClubNew Mutants (vol. 4) #14
Rubbermaid (Andrea Marguiles) - Depowered as a result of M-Day; killed when the bus exploded,but resurrected and now living on Krakoa.X-Men Unlimited Infinity Comic #15
Indra (Paras Gavaskar) - revealed to have been the youngest mutant alive after M-Day and a target for the Purifiers; now a resident of Krakoa
Loa (Alani Ryan) - currently a resident of Krakoa
Kidogo (Lazaro Kotikash) - Depowered as a result of M-Day; still alive as revealed by the creators
Network (Sarah Vale) - Depowered as a result of M-Day; killed on the bus when it exploded

Hellions
thumb|right|Hellions
Hellion (Julian Keller) - currently a resident of Krakoa
Tag (Brian Cruz) - Depowered as a result of M-Day; killed on a bus when it exploded but resurrected and a current resident of Krakoa.
Rockslide (Santo Vaccarro) - Betrayed and killed by the Arakki Summoner; resurrected not quite right on Krakoa and known as 'Wrongslide'
Dust (Sooraya Qadir) - Currently a resident of Krakoa; assists with atmospheric regulation on Arakko
Mercury (Cessily Kincaid) - currently a resident of Krakoa
Wither (Kevin Ford) - served as the ward of Selene before being killed by Elixir.

Corsairs
Quill (Maxwell Jordan) - Killed by Reverend Stryker's Purifiers
The Five-In-One (Phoebe, Celeste, Sophie, Esme and Irma "Mindee" Cuckoo) - Residents of Krakoa, working with the White branch of the Hellfire Trading CompanyMarauders (vol. 1) #27
Dryad (Callie Betto) - Depowered as a result of M-Day; killed on the bus when it exploded, but now a resident of Krakoa
Specter (Dallas Gibson) - Depowered as a result of M-Day; living at home with his grandfather as revealed by the creators

Paragons
Wolf Cub (Nicholas Gleason) - Once a member of the Young X-Men; killed by Donald Pierce.
Match (Ben Hamill) - relocated to San Francisco with the X-Men
Pixie (Megan Gwynn) - Has a soul dagger; relocated to San Francisco and currently a member of the X-Men
Preview (Jessica Vale) - Depowered as a result of M-Day.
DJ (Mark Sheppard) - Depowered as a result of M-Day; killed on a bus when it exploded but resurrected and living on KrakoaWay of X #1
Trance (Hope Abbott) - relocated to San Francisco with the X-Men; a resident of Krakoa

New Mutants Training Squad
Prodigy - Depowered as a result of M-Day; received the "memory" of all the things he had learnt by the Three-in-One, relocated to San Francisco with the X-Men and spent time with the young Young Avengers; murdered and revived on Krakoa, serving with X-FactorX-Factor (vol. 4) #1
Elixir (Josh Foley) - He is an omega-level mutant, relocated to San Francisco with the X-Men and an ally of X-Force; now one of The Five on Krakoa
Icarus (Joshua "Jay" Guthrie) - Brother of Sam & Paige Guthrie; killed by William Stryker; resurrected on Krakoa
Wind Dancer (Sofia Mantega) - Depowered as a result of M-Day and later a member of the New Warriors; killed in the Mojoverse and resurrected on Krakoa;X-Factor (vol. 4) #3, 5 now working with X-Corp
Surge (Noriko Ashida) - relocated to San Francisco with the X-Men; now a resident of Krakoa
Wallflower (Laurie Collins) - Killed by Reverend Stryker's snipers; resurrected on Krakoa

Chevaliers
Flubber (Nick Shelley) - Depowered as a result of M-Day
Onyxx (Sidney Green) - relocated to San Francisco with the X-Men, killed by Mortis; resurrected on KrakoaX-Factor (vol. 4) #3
Bling! (Roxy Washington) - relocated to San Francisco with the X-Men; a resident of Krakoa
Rain Boy (Carl Aalston) - Depowered as a result of M-Day; a resident of Krakoa and a member of the Lost Club
Foxx - Revealed to be Mystique in disguise for the purpose of seducing Gambit

Storm's squad
Gentle (Nezhno Abidemi) - Associate/Member of the New X-Men. Wakandan heritage, relocated to San Francisco with the X-Men; worked under Jean Grey in X-Men Red; now a Wakandan agent spying on Storm on ArakkoBlack Panther (vol. 8) #3

Lower School
Jeffrey Garrett - He was killed during the destruction of the Xavier Institute but remained as a ghost thanks to his secondary mutation.  He vanished due to the loss of his powers during M-Day.
Leong Coy Manh - Younger brother of Karma, possibly relocated to San Francisco with Karma
Nga Coy Manh - Younger sister of Karma, possibly relocated to San Francisco with Karma
Carter Ghazikhanian - Son of the former nurse/love interest of Havok, Annie Ghazikhanian.  Left with his mother when she thought the school was too dangerous.

Other students and wards of the Xavier Institute
The following students have been clearly depicted as attending the Xavier Institute since it re-opened, but their squad affiliation has not been revealed. Some of these students may be a part of the Lower School or members of squads that have not been fully revealed, such as the Beast's Exemplars or Iceman's Excelsiors. Some are mutants, but not students, that have taken refuge at Xavier's.

Melody Guthrie - sister of Sam, Jay, and Paige Guthrie; formerly depowered, regained her powers after the ritual of The Crucible in Krakoa.X-Men (Vol. 5) #7.
Protozoa (Linus Sinker) - turns into amorphous blob; possibly depowered.
Cryptid (Andy Hartnell) - taken out by X-Men on Halloween; saved a young girl from kidnappers, but was then shunned due to appearance; possibly depowered.
Armor (Hisako Ichiki) - relocated to San Francisco; now a resident of Krakoa
Naiad (Aurelie Sabayon) - depowered.
Blindfold (Ruth Aldine) - currently a member of Young X-Men; relocated to San Francisco with the X-Men.
Carter - taken out by X-Men on Halloween; possibly depowered.
Choir (Irina Clayton) - former member of the temporary Street Team X-Men; depowered.
Hitch-Hiker (Connor Lauglin) - severe combined immunodeficiency; powers discovered when mentally linked up with Rogue and Rachel Grey; trained/treated by Beast; possibly depowered.
Devon - taken out by X-Men on Halloween; possibly depowered.
"Ell" (Eleanor Sanford) - friend of Ruth; taken in and captured by Poppa and the Underground and freed by Magneto; possibly depowered.
Eosimias (Hong Lianje)- possibly depowered.
Flood (Eugene Walker) - possibly depowered.
Eve - taken out by X-Men on Halloween; possibly depowered.
Forearm (Marcus Tucker)  - former member of the temporary Street Team X-Men; depowered.
Pinocchio (Frank Ludlum) - wrote simple rhyming poem, "She's My Flower"; possibly depowered.
Contact (Frida Rivera) - Known for her glasses, Frida was one of the many students of the Xavier Institute that under the telepathic control of Cassandra Nova attacked Wolverine. However she was later knocked unconscious by Jean Grey. She had the powers of psychometry and a form of touch based telepathy. Frida was possibly depowered.
Hothead (Germaine Caruso) - he had flame powers but was killed during riots at Salem Center.
Gloom (Jordan Lewis) - depowered.
Skylark (Greg Carlson) - he had flight powers and spots on his forearms; possibly depowered.
Hydro (Noah Crichton) - drowned after losing his powers on M-Day; mentioned as Hellion's lab partner.
Spirit (Jacob Pace) -  powers progressed out of control until he vanished; spent last hours watching a sunrise with Kitty Pryde.
Elsewhere (Jaime Vanderwall) - writing career encouraged by Beast; possibly depowered.
Collider (James Louis "Jim" Prindle) - twin brother of Joe, who was human; used powers to accumulate wealth which he squandered and then came to Joe for a handout after he lost his powers; depowered.
Jane - taken out by X-Men on Halloween; possibly depowered.
Jeb - romantic interest of Anne Moore; possibly depowered.
Jenna - taken out by X-Men on Halloween; possibly depowered.
Josette Francks - Genoshan refugee; wife of Robert Francks; attempted to seduce Angel and Iceman; possibly depowered.
Julie - mentioned as a member of the flying class; possibly depowered.
Kato Anishiwa - was an Imperial Guardsman posing as a student.
Iolanthe (Katie Atkinson) - she had insect wings and was a "friend" of Anne Moore; possibly depowered.
Koren - possibly depowered.
Longneck (William Hanover)  - former member of the temporary Street Team X-Men; presumably depowered.
Marie Jennifer D'Ancanto - a human whose family was killed by mutants; she was forced to sell her home to X-Corp and tried to blow up the Mermaid bar; stopped by X-Men and enrolled in the Xavier Institute. She is now the ward of Evangeline Whedon.
Melissa - possibly depowered.
Cephalopod (Molly Stanwick) - tentacles on lower half of body; possibly depowered.
Nancy - mentioned as a member of the flying class; possibly depowered.
Becky - mentioned as a member of the flying class; possibly depowered.
Silicon (Stan Finch) - frictionless surface powers; depowered.
Skywalker - depowered.
Slick (Quincy Marrow) - charismatic and projected illusion of normal looking form until disrupted by Quentin Quire; dated Tattoo; depowered.
Spencer Bronson - son of Anthony Bronson; after being subdued by Forge and Mystique, he used his powers to control his father until he convinced his father to let him go to Xavier's for training; has three eyes (one on forehead) and could manipulate men; possibly depowered.
Spike (Gary Walsh) - he had spikes on his skin; possibly depowered.
Susan - taken out by X-Men on Halloween; possibly depowered.
Tantra (Reuben O'Hara) - elephantine form; able to manipulate the emotions of others; possibly depowered.
Lipid (Anne Moore) - became violent with friend Katie when she told her secrets to Jeb; possibly depowered.
Tito Bohusk - son of Beak and Angel Salvadore; only member of his family to retain his powers.
Tommy - taken out by X-Men on Halloween; possibly depowered.
Walter Lambert - wheelchair-bound human exchange student from Empire State University; whereabouts unknown.
Wing (Edward Tancredi) - powers neutralized by Ord; apparently committed suicide afterward in the Danger Room.
View (Winston Frankowski) - possibly depowered.
X-23 (Laura Kinney) - currently a member of X-Force; relocated to San Francisco with the X-Men.
Overlay (Zach Halliwell) - he could merge objects or beings; depowered.

Staff
Angel (Warren Worthington III) - Graduate assistant and Recruiter; lost his memory after his death and his resurrection at the end of the Dark Angel Saga.
Anole (Victor "Vic" Borkowski)
Armor (Hisako Ichiki)
Beast (Dr. Henry "Hank" McCoy) - Vice-Principal; Science and Philosophy professor; currently member of X-Men, Secret Avengers and S.W.O.R.D.
Chamber (Jonothon "Jono" Starsmore) - Junior Staff; formerly member of the Generation X.
Deathlok - Junior Staff; Future teaching professor; former member of Wolverine's X-Force.
Doop - Adjunct Staff; Introduction to Religion professor; Receptionist; formerly cameraman of X-Statix.
Firestar - New staff who joins the X-Men after the Battle of the Atom. Formerly a member of the Avengers and the New Warriors.
Frenzy (Joanna Cargill) - Adjunct Staff; former X-Villain member of Acolytes of Magneto and Alliance of Evil.
Husk (Paige Guthrie) - Junior Staff; Former Mutant Art and Literature professor. Currently school guidance councilor due to secondary mutation.
Iceman (Robert "Bobby" Drake) - Senior Staff; Mathematics professor; formerly mentor of the Excelsiors.
Kid Omega (Quintavius "Quentin" Quire)
Marvel Girl (Rachel Grey) - Senior Staff; Psychic Defense and Space Survival professor; formerly member of the Starjammers.
M (Monet St. Croix) - Former member of X-Factor Investigations
Nightcrawler (Kurt Wagner)
Pixie (Megan Gwynn)
Dr. Cecilia Reyes - Resident Physician; current member of the New York-based X-Men.
Storm (Ororo Munroe) - Headmistress; joins team in replacing Husk.
Warbird (Ava'Dara Naganandini) - Junior Staff; School Protector.

Formerly
Cannonball (Samuel "Sam" Guthrie) - Junior Staff; Flight professor; formerly leader of New Mutants; left the school to join the Avengers.
Gambit (Remy LeBeau) - Senior Staff Member; Sex-Ed professor; formerly mentor of Chevaliers; kicked out and joined the All-New X-Factor
Karma (Xi'an "Shan" Coy Manh) - Junior Staff; Librarian; formerly a member of the recent incarnation of New Mutants and replacement mentor of Alpha Squadron. Left the school to live in the ruins of Utopia, later joined the New Charles Xavier School for Mutants and its team of X-Men.
Lockheed - Junior Staff; Alien Races professor; currently a member of the X-Men, the S.W.O.R.D. and the Pet Avengers.
Mimic (Calvin Rankin) - Junior Staff; one of the most ancient members of the X-Men; former X-Villain member of the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants and of Norman Osborn's Dark X-Men; left after the war between Avengers and X-Men.
Professor X (Charles Xavier) - Senior Staff; X-Men founder.
Psylocke (Elizabeth "Betsy" Braddock) - Former teacher, fired by Wolverine because she was reacting aggressively to students' thoughts.Uncanny X-Force, vol. 2 #1-6
Rogue (Anna Marie) - Senior Staff Member; Linguistics professor; formerly mentor of Advocates.
Shadowcat (Katherine "Kitty" Pryde) - Former Headmistress, now Senior Staff; Ethics, Computer Science, and Future History professor; left after the Battle of the Atom.
Toad (Mortimer Toynbee) - Janitor; former X-Villain member of Brotherhood of Evil Mutants; left to be partner with Dr. Frankenstein
Wolverine (James Howlett/Logan) - Headmaster; History and Combat professor; formerly leader of Jean Grey School X-Men.

Students
Blindfold (Ruth Aldine)
Bling! (Roxanne "Roxy" Washington)
Broo - Brood mutant found by the X-Men and S.W.O.R.D.
Cipher (Alisa Tager)
Crosta - Atlantean/Mutant.
Dust (Sooraya Qadir)
Manuel Enduque - Former Black King of the Hellfire Club and former member of the Hellfire Academy.
Ernst
Eye Boy (Trevor Hawkins) - Mutant who manifested his powers after the event of Avengers vs. X-Men.
Face - Former Inferno baby.
Genesis (Evan Sabahnur) - clone of Apocalypse created by Fantomex.
Gentle (Nezhno Abidemi)
Graymalkin (Jonas Graymalkin)
Hellion (Julian Keller)
Indra (Paras Gavaskar)
Ink (Eric Gitter)
Kid Gladiator (Kubark) - son of Imperial Guard member and new majestor of the Shi'ar Empire, Kallark, a.k.a. Gladiator.
Match (Benjamin "Ben" Hammil)
Mercury (Cessily Kincaid)
No-Girl (Martha Johansson)
Nature Girl (Lin Li) - New mutant to join after Battle of the Atom
Oya (Idie Okonkwo)
Primal (Teon Macik)
Rockslide (Santo Vaccarro)
Shark-Girl (Iara Dos Santos) - Mutant who manifested her powers after the event of Avengers vs. X-Men.
Sprite (Jia Jing) - Mutant who manifested her powers after the event of Avengers vs. X-Men.
Surge (Nori Ashida)
Trance (Hope Abbott)
Transonic (Laurie Tromette)
Velocidad (Gabriel Cohuelo)

Formerly
Angel (Warren Worthington III)
Anole (Victor "Vic" Borkowski) - Left to join the Board of Directors of Worthington Industries.
Dr. Frankenstein (Maximilian "Max" Frankenstein/Baron Maximilian von Katzenelnbogen) - Former Black Bishop of the Hellfire Club and former member of the Hellfire Academy; left school
Karasu (Karasu-Tengu) - The adopted daughter of Wolverine's deceased mentor Ogun, as well as a powerful psychic.
"Sojobo (Sojobo-Tengu)"/Luca Aldine - Evil brother of Blindfold. He possessed Sojobo-Tengu, the brother of Karasu, and briefly joins the X-Men students in his body.
Squidface (Josephine Brickelmoore) - Human who was pretending to be a mutant. Actually a mole for the S.H.I.E.L.D. and Mystique.
Stepford Cuckoos (Celeste, Mindee & Phoebe) - Left to join Cyclops's New Charles Xavier School for Mutants.
Hope Summers
Time-Displaced Original X-Men - The five original X-Men who came from the 1960s. Left to join Cyclops's New Charles Xavier School for Mutants.
Angel (Warren Worthington III) - Past Version
Beast (Henry "Hank" McCoy) - Past Version
Cyclops (Scott Summers) - Past Version
Iceman (Robert "Bobby" Drake) - Past Version
Marvel Girl (Jean Grey) - Past Version
Tri-Joey (Joseph Brickelmoore) - Human who was pretending to be a mutant. Actually a mole for the S.H.I.E.L.D. and Mystique.

New Charles Xavier School for Mutants

Staff
Cyclops (Scott Summers) - Leader of New Charles Xavier School X-Men; currently declared criminal mutant by the government of U.S.A. for the crimes than he committed during his possession by the Phoenix Force, especially for the murder of Professor Charles Xavier.
Emma Frost - Former X-Villain; currently declared criminal mutant by the government of U.S.A. for the crimes than she committed during her possession by the Phoenix Force.
Lockheed- former member of Jean Grey School. Joined after Battle of the Atom
Magik (Illyana Rasputina) - Sister of the former X-Man Colossus; currently declared criminal mutant by the government of U.S.A. for the crimes than she committed during her possession by the Phoenix Force.
Shadowcat (Katherine "Kitty" Pryde) - Former Headmistress, and later Senior Staff at the new Jean Grey school; left after the Battle of the Atom.

Formerly
Magneto (Max Eisenhardt/Erik "Magnus" Lehnsherr) - Former X-Villain; currently declared criminal mutant by the government of U.S.A. for assisting Scott and Emma during Avengers Vs. X-Men; left school

Students
Benjamin Deeds - Mutant who manifested his powers after the event of Avengers vs. X-Men.
Goldballs (Fabio Medina) - Mutant who manifested his powers after the event of Avengers vs. X-Men.
Hijack (David Bond) - Mutant who manifested his powers after the event of Avengers vs. X-Men.
Stepford Cuckoos (Celeste, Mindee & Phoebe)
Tempus (Eva Bell) - Mutant who manifested her powers after the event of Avengers vs. X-Men.
Time-Displaced Original X-Men - The five original X-Men who came from the 1960s.
Angel (Warren Worthington III) - Past Version
Beast (Henry "Hank" McCoy) - Past Version
Cyclops (Scott Summers) - Past Version
Iceman (Robert "Bobby" Drake) - Past Version
Marvel Girl (Jean Grey) - Past Version
Triage (Christopher Muse) - Mutant who manifested his powers after the event of Avengers vs. X-Men.
X-23 (Laura Kinney)

See also
List of X-Men members

References

Xavier
Xavier
Xavier Institute students and staff