Blue Streak is the name of three supervillains appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. 

Publication history
Blue Streak first appeared in Captain America #217-218 (Jan.–Feb. 1978), created by Roy Thomas, Don Glut, and John Buscema. He was killed by the Scourge of the Underworld in Captain America #318 (June 1986).

Fictional character biography

Don Thomas

In Captain America #217 S.H.I.E.L.D. decides to put together a group of Super-Agents, of which Blue Streak becomes a member.Captain America #217 (Jan. 1978). Marvel Comics. Later in Captain America #218 Captain America outed Blue Streak as a spy for the Corporation.Captain America #218 (Feb. 1978). Marvel Comics.

After the events of issues #217-218, Justin Hammer re-designed Blue Streak's equipment and funded his operations.The Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe: Deluxe Edition #5. Marvel Comics. After leaving prison, the Blue Streak led a successful career as a professional criminal in the American Midwest. Blue Streak was contacted by Gary Gilbert about the serial killings of super-villains. Blue Streak was invited to join an underground network to locate and eliminate the killer, but he refused. In Captain America #318, Blue Streak had a run-in with Captain America, and while making his escape, was subsequently murdered by the Scourge of the Underworld.Captain America #318 (June 1986). Marvel Comics.

In Captain America #427 the shape-shifter Dead Ringer obtained samples of dead tissue from Blue Streak's body so he could impersonate him.Captain America #427. Marvel Comics.

In Punisher vol.7 #5 Blue Streak appeared as one of the eighteen criminals, all murdered by the Scourge, to be resurrected by Hood using the power of Dormammu as part of a squad assembled to eliminate the Punisher.Punisher vol. 7 #5. Marvel Comics. Blue Streak wound up fighting the Punisher's partner Henry instead, who broke Blue Streak's neck and apparently killed him.Punisher vol. 7 #9. Marvel Comics.

Jonathan Swift

Blue Streak (Jonathan Swift) first appeared during the height of the "Civil War" storyline. He is the successor of the original Blue Streak.Heroes for Hire vol. 2 #3. Marvel Comics.

Using money from one of his heists, Blue Streak forms a team of similarly garbed thieves called Fast Five, consisting of Gold Rush, Silver Ghost, Green Light and Redline.Captain America and the Mighty Avengers #2. Marvel Comics.

During the "Avengers: Standoff!" storyline, Blue Streak and the rest of the Fast Five appear as inmates at Pleasant Hill which secretly serves as a S.H.I.E.L.D. PrisonCaptain America: Sam Wilson #8. Marvel Comics.

During the "Opening Salvo" part of the "Secret Empire" storyline, Blue Streak appears as a member of the Army of Evil.U.S.Avengers #5. Marvel Comics.

Powers and abilities
The original Blue Streak's equipment included rocket-powered roller skates which allowed forward and backward movement and leaping, lasers mounted on the arms of his suit, and caltrops that he used to puncture the tires of pursuing cars.

The Jonathan Swift version of the Fast Five wears an armored suit with the same type of roller skates.

Other versions
MC2 Bluestreak

Bluestreak (Blue Kelso) is a fictional character who appeared in the Marvel Comics series A-Next. The character appears as a mutant capable of running at superhuman speeds. Her top velocity is unknown, but she is shown to be able to exceed the speed of sound. She is also shown to possess incredible stamina. She is a mutant gifted with incredible speed, who left the newest incarnation of the X-Men (the X-People) because they were not "flashy" enough for her. Bluestreak's real name is later revealed as Blue Kelso.Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe (2006) #2.

Bluestreak appears as a member of the Dream Team, who soon become part of the new Avengers team. She quickly develops a crush on teammate J2 (a fact to which he is completely oblivious). Bluestreak is characterized as cocky and impulsive, with a cheerful attitude, and is shown having problems following the orders of Mainframe. When Mainframe's inert body needs to be taken across the city in less than a minute, she places him on a gurney and covers the needed distance in virtually no time at all, even remarking afterwards that she could have stopped for a sandwich, but did not want to show off.

 References 

External links
 
 Blue Streak (Don Thomas) at Marvel Database wiki

 
 Blue Streak (Jonathan Swift) at Marvel Database wiki

Bluestreak (psychic) at Marvel Database wiki

Category:Characters created by John Buscema
Category:Characters created by Mike Deodato
Category:Characters created by Roy Thomas
Category:Characters created by Tom DeFalco
Category:Characters created by Warren Ellis
Category:Comics characters introduced in 1978
Category:Comics characters introduced in 1999
Category:Comics characters introduced in 2007
Category:Marvel Comics 2
Category:Marvel Comics characters who can move at superhuman speeds
Category:Marvel Comics mutants
Category:Marvel Comics superheroes
Category:Marvel Comics supervillains
Category:S.H.I.E.L.D. agents