Chondu the Mystic, sometimes known as Chondu the Yogi, is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Chondu the Mystic first appeared in Tales of Suspense #9 and was created by Doug Wildley and George Evans while his monstrous form was created by Steve Gerber and Sal Buscema.

Fictional character biography
Chondu was once a sideshow magician before becoming a professional criminal. In his first appearance, he lectured on yoga and sent an escaped convict to Limbo.Tales of Suspense #9

Chondu later joins the Headmen.The Defenders #21 Dr. Arthur Nagan transplants Chondu's brain into Nighthawk's body in a bid to exploit the Defenders. Doctor Strange defeats him in a fight and mystically places Chondu's consciousness in a fawn's body. Meanwhile, Nagan and Ruby Thursday carry out a series of alterations to Chondu's original body. His altered body is a monstrous, demonic-looking form with eight lampreys for arms, bird-wings, a horn from his skull, fangs, a forked tongue, and eagles' feet. His consciousness is placed in an artificial brain made out of the same material as Ruby's head. In this form, he had superhuman strength, flight and could constrict objects with his tentacle-like arms. Chondu attempts to kidnap a construction worker to use in a brain transplant, but encounters Valkyrie and is arrested by the New York City police.The Defenders #31-33, 35

The Headmen later hire Mysterio to capture the She-Hulk, and place Chondu's head on a clone of her body, which he does not appreciate. She-Hulk and Spider-Man battle the Headmen, and in the course of the fight Chondu's head is knocked free from its new body. He survives thanks to life-support equipment attached to his head.The Sensational She-Hulk #1-3

As part of the All-New, All-Different Marvel branding, Chondu has been seen as a bartender at the Bar with no Doors, a tavern frequented by various mystics.Doctor Strange vol. 4 #1

Powers and abilities
Chondu can perform intermediate magic as he is an adept in the mystic arts. In his monstrous demonic-like form, he had superhuman strength, flight and the ability to constrict objects with his tentacle-like arms.

References

External links
 Chondu the Mystic at Marvel.com
 Chondu the Mystic at Marvel Wiki
 Chondu the Mystic at Comic Vine
 

Category:Characters created by Sal Buscema
Category:Characters created by Steve Gerber
Category:Comics characters introduced in 1960
Category:Fictional characters from Rhode Island
Category:Marvel Comics characters who use magic
Category:Marvel Comics characters with superhuman strength
Category:Marvel Comics male supervillains
Category:Marvel Comics supervillains