This is a list of some of the major foes of the Marvel Comics superhero team, the X-Men.

Central rogues' gallery
Villain  First appearance  Description Apocalypse  X-Factor #5 (June 1986)  En Sabah Nur is an ancient and immortal mutant with an array of superhuman abilities ranging from shapeshifting to immense superhuman strength and durability.  Apocalypse's ultimate goal is to eradicate all life from Earth in order to reshape it in his image.  He currently serves in the Autumn section of the Quiet Council of Krakoa and is an ally to Excalibur. Arcade  Marvel Team-Up #65 (January 1978)  A wealthy madman who traps victims in his violent amusement park known as Murderworld. Arcade has also fought several other Marvel superheroes, including Spider-Man, Captain Britain, Hercules, Hellcat, and Iron Man, often utilizing Murderworld in his plots. Avalanche  The Uncanny X-Men #141 (January 1981)  Dominikos Petrakis is a mutant with the ability to generate seismic waves from his hands. He most often uses this ability to create tremors and earthquakes. Avalanche was first recruited into Mystique's Brotherhood of Evil Mutants and has remained a prominent X-Men villain since.

A second, unnamed Avalanche appeared after the apparent death of Petrakis. Black Tom Cassidy  The Uncanny X-Men #101 (October 1976)  Thomas Cassidy is a mutant with the ability to channel bio-kinetic energy into concussive blasts with wooden objects and later gained the ability to manipulate plant life.  Black Tom is often seen with his partner, Juggernaut.  He is currently a member of Krakoa's mutant intelligence group X-Force. Blob  X-Men #3 (January 1964)  Frederick J. Dukes is a mutant with elastic, blubbery skin. Morbidly obese, Blob is immune to most physical harm. He also possesses a personal gravity field which enabled him to render himself immovable. Blob was a member of the original Brotherhood of Evil Mutants and has been one of the X-Men's most recurring and persistent adversaries.

Although Blob appeared to lose his powers after Decimation, he has since appeared with his powers intact. The Brood  The Uncanny X-Men #155 (March 1982)  A race of savage, insectoid extraterrestrials that have existed for thousands of years. Cassandra Nova  New X-Men #114 (July 2001)  Cassandra Nova is a “mummudrai,” an astral, bodiless being, and the ideological dark shadow to her twin, Professor X. Dark Phoenix  The Uncanny X-Men #134 (June 1980)  Jean Grey became the Dark Phoenix after suffering from manipulative illusions created by Mastermind of the Hellfire Club. Deathbird  Ms. Marvel #9 (September 1977)  Cal'Syee Neramani is a Shi'ar warrior and Empress Lilandra's older sister. Exiled from the Shi'ar Empire, Deathbird sought to reclaim her throne which put her at odds with Lilandra's allies, the X-Men. Exodus  X-Factor #92 (July 1993)  Bennet du Paris is a powerful mutant with telepathy, telekinesis, teleportation, and immortality. Exodus was a loyal member of the Acolytes, worshipers of Magneto, for many years.  He currently serves the Winter section of the Quiet Council of Krakoa. Juggernaut  X-Men #12 (July 1965)  Cain Marko is Professor Charles Xavier's stepbrother and one of the X-Men's earliest enemies. After finding the mystical gem of Cyttorak, Marko is empowered and becomes the Juggernaut, a massive, unstoppable creature capable of shattering mountains. Despite lacking the mutant gene, Juggernaut is often a member of various incarnations of the Brotherhood of Mutants. Lady Deathstrike  Daredevil #197 (August 1983)  Yuriko Oyama is the daughter of Japanese crime boss Lord Dark Wind. After the death of her lover, Oyama sought out Spiral in order to enhance her body. She was modified with adamantium bones and talons, and took the name Lady Deathstrike. Magneto  X-Men #1 (September 1963)  Max "Erik Magnus" Eisenhardt is a mutant with the ability to generate and control magnetic fields. A close friend of Professor X, Magneto clashed with the X-Men over the philosophy that mutants and humans could coexist. A survivor of The Holocaust, Magneto believed mutants were superior to humans. Magneto has formed several groups over the years to fight for mutant supremacy, including the Brotherhood of Mutants and the Acolytes. Magneto has also served with the X-Men on several occasions and is currently one of the central decision-makers on the mutant nation of Krakoa, serving in the Autumn section of the Quiet Council of Krakoa. Mastermind  X-Men #4 (March 1964)  Jason Wyngarde was a mutant with the power to create illusions. A member of several villain groups such as the Brotherhood of Mutants, Factor Three, and the Hellfire Club, Mastermind is largely known for being responsible for Jean Grey's transition into the Dark Phoenix. He later died from the Legacy Virus after he begs for Jean Grey's forgiveness. Mastermind was later resurrected when the X-Men relocated to Krakoa.

Mastermind's daughters, Martinique Jason and Regan Wyngarde, later carried on his legacy. Mister Sinister  The Uncanny X-Men #221 (September 1987)  Nathaniel Essex is a genetically-altered human and scientific genius, and one of the X-Men's deadliest enemies. Sinister first rose to prominence when he ordered his assassins, the Marauders, to hunt down and kill the sewer-dwelling mutants known as the Morlocks. He later played key roles as a mastermind in the shadows through events such as Inferno and Messiah CompleX. Mister Sinister has mastered genetic cloning, which he uses to create clones of the Marauders and others.

Although not a mutant at birth, Essex genetically engineered the X-Gene of deceased X-Man John Proudstar into his own genome. In exchange for his collection of mutant DNA he's collected over the years, he was welcomed to the mutant nation of Krakoa, where he serves in the Winter section of the Quiet Council of Krakoa. Outside of his duties in the council, he is also a field leader of sorts of the Hellions. Mojo  Longshot #3 (November 1985)  An obese, yellow-skinned alien from a race known as the “Spineless Ones,” Mojo is a slaver who rules the Mojoverse, a dimension obsessed with television programs and celebrities. Mystique  Ms. Marvel #16 (April 1978)  Raven Darkholme is a mutant with shapeshifting abilities. While she first appeared as a Ms. Marvel villain, Mystique has become one of the most iconic and recurring adversaries for the X-Men.  She currently serves in the Winter section of the Quiet Council of Krakoa. Omega Red  X-Men (vol. 4) #4 (January 1992)  Arkady Gregorivich Rossovich was a serial killer who underwent experiments that equipped him with retractable tentacle-like coils in each of his arms. Pyro  The Uncanny X-Men #141 (January 1981)  St. John Allerdyce is an Australian mutant with pyrokinesis, the ability to manipulate flame. Pyro has served with multiple incarnations of the Brotherhood of Mutants, as well as the government-led Freedom Force. Pyro later contracted the Legacy Virus and died months after. However, Pyro was resurrected by Selene during Necrosha, and has made multiple appearances since. He later died once again, but was the first mutant resurrected by the X-Men as they took residence on the mutant island of Krakoa. There, Pyro joined Kate Pryde's band of mutant pirates known as the Marauders.

A second Pyro named Simon Lasker joined Mesmero's Brotherhood of Mutants, but later reformed and joined the X-Men. Sabretooth  Iron Fist #14 (August 1977)  Victor Creed is a mutant with a regenerative healing factor similar to Wolverine's. Like Wolverine, Sabretooth gained an adamantium skeleton and claws under unknown circumstances.  He was the first mutant to break the laws of the newly founded mutant nation Krakoa and was banished to a void within the island where he will live the rest of his life in permanent stasis. Sauron  The Uncanny X-Men #59 (August 1969)  Dr. Karl Lykos is a human geneticist who was transformed into a pterodactyl-like humanoid. As the winged Sauron, Lykos is an energy vampire who must absorb the lifeforce of those around him for sustenance. If Lykos absorbs a mutant's energy, he is transformed into Sauron, and his savage mind takes over. Sebastian Shaw  The Uncanny X-Men #129 (January 1980)  Sebastian Shaw was a mutant with the ability to absorb kinetic and thermal energy directed at him. He was the leader of the New York branch of the Hellfire Club, where he has ruthlessly sacrificed mutant interests for the sake of money and power. He is currently the Black King of the Hellfire Trading Company and has employed his recently resurrected son Shinobi Shaw and the twin mercenaries Fenris as his Black Bishop and Black Knights, respectively, to grapple power of Krakoan trade from Emma Frost and Kate Pryde. Shadow King  The Uncanny X-Men #117 (January 1979)  Amahl Farouk is an Egyptian mutant with powerful telepathic abilities and the power to possess other beings while on the Astral Plane. The Shadow King has played a key role in Storm's origin, and has often faced off against Professor X. Silver Samurai  Daredevil #111 (July 1974)  Kenuichio Harada was a mutant with the ability to charge his katana with a tachyon field.

Harada's son, Shingen Harada, later took up the mantle of Silver Samurai. Spiral  Longshot #1 (September 1985)  Rita Wayword is a human who was forcibly modified into the sorceress known as Spiral by her former master, Mojo. As Spiral, Wayword has powerful mystical abilities able to defeat the X-Men singlehandedly. She briefly served with Freedom Force and later opened a “Body Shoppe” where she modified others, such as Lady Deathstrike and the other Reavers, as well as the X-Men's Psylocke. On occasions, Mojo would summon Spiral to serve him, though she later retrieved the part of her soul stolen from her by Mojo which stripped Mojo's control over her and activated the complete scope of her powers. Toad  X-Men #4 (March 1964)  Mortimer Toynbee is a mutant with superhuman leg and tongue strength and the ability to secrete a paralyzing venom from his mucus. Toad served as Magneto's henchman for several years until he formed his own version of the Brotherhood of Mutants. His leadership was temporary, however, as he resumed his status as an underling in later incarnations of the team. White Queen  The Uncanny X-Men #129 (January 1980)  Emma Frost is a mutant with powerful telepathic abilities, and later a secondary mutation that allows Frost to transform into an indestructible diamond form. While Emma Frost first appeared as the White Queen of the Hellfire Club, she later joined the X-Men and became a prominent member of the group.

Other recurring antagonists
Villain  First appearance  Description The Adversary  The Uncanny X-Men #188 (December 1984)  A demon with reality-warping powers. He is often associated with the X-Men member Forge. Ahab  Fantastic Four Annual #23 (July 1990)  Dr. Roderick “Rory” Campbell is a time-traveling cyborg from the future with the ability to generate energy harpoons. Ahab was a key figure in the origin of Rachel Summers, the future daughter of Cyclops of Jean Grey. He later served Apocalypse as his Horseman of Famine. Azazel  The Uncanny X-Men #428 (October 2003)  A member of the demonic mutant species known as the Neyaphem. Azazel is the father of the X-Man Nightcrawler. Bastion  X-Men #52 (May 1996)  An android who wished to terminate all mutants. Belasco  Ka-Zar the Savage #11 (February 1982)  An ancient, evil sorcerer serving the Elder Gods, Belasco was the ruler of the realm known as Limbo. Belasco was a key figure in Magik's origin. Bella Donna  X-Men (vol. 2) #8 (May 1992)  Bella Donna Boudreaux is a mutant with astral projection abilities, as well as the power to generate plasma blasts. A member of the Assassin's Guild, Bella Donna was a prominent figure in Gambit's past. Bolivar Trask  X-Men #14 (November 1965)  Bolivar Trask was an anthropologist who saw the rise of mutants as a threat to humanity. Trask was the developer of the robot guardians known as the Sentinels. Trask later realized the errors of his ways and sacrificed himself to destroy the Sentinels' base. Caliban  The Uncanny X-Men #148 (August 1981)  An albino mutant and former member of the sewer-dwelling Morlocks, Caliban had the ability to sense and track any mutant. Originally an ally to the X-Men, Caliban was corrupted by Apocalypse and transformed into a Horseman of Apocalypse shortly after the morlock massacre. He later overcame this corruption and joined the X-Men. Callisto  The Uncanny X-Men #169 (May 1983)  Leader of the underground-dwelling mutant community known as the Morlocks, Callisto is a mutant with enhanced senses. She is currently the White Knight of the Hellfire Trading Company, under the leadership of Emma Frost. Cameron Hodge  X-Factor #1 (February 1986)  Cameron Hodge was a human who deceived X-Factor by posing as an ally. But in reality, he despised mutants and plotted to kill the members of X-Factor. He was later killed and bonded with the Phalanx. Candra  Gambit #1 (December 1993)  A member of the Externals, Candra is a mutant with powerful telekinetic abilities and immortality. Candra is most often associated with the Assassins and Thieves Guilds where she is known as the Benefactress, bestowing great powers to those who serve her. She also has a history with Storm, who had stolen the gem known as the Heart of Candra, the source of her powers. Cobalt Man  X-Men #31 (February, 1967)  Ralph Roberts was a scientist studying cobalt and nuclear radiation. He used his research to make a suit similar to Iron Man planning to give it the military. When he first put it on, he was suffering from a concussion due to a pole jump injured, causing him to become obsessed with defeating Iron Man. He was defeated by the X-Men before his unstable suit could explode. Crimson Commando  The Uncanny X-Men #215 (March 1987)  Frank Bohannan was a mutant with peak human physical prowess. Along with Super Sabre and Stonewall, Crimson Commando was a World War II veteran who joined Freedom Force. During a mission with Freedom Force, Crimson Commando was gravely injured and forced to undergo cybernetic modifications. He then changed his codename to simply Commando. After Decimation, he was one of the many mutants who lost their powers. He was later killed by Wolverine after kidnapping Hope Summers. Cyber  Marvel Comics Presents #85 (September 1991)  Silas Burr was a mutant with superhuman strength. He later modified his body with adamantium, granting himself indestructible skin. After Wolverine lost his adamantium, Genesis captured and killed Cyber in attempt to bond his adamantium with the X-Man's. Cyber later escaped Hell and became the new Hornet. Danger  Astonishing X-Men (vol. 3) #9 (2005)  Danger is a sentient AI robot that is the physical manifestation of the Danger Room. It is agender, but has taken the form and shape of a female humanoid android. Dark Beast  X-Men Alpha (1991)  Henry Phillip McCoy is a twisted version of the X-Man, Beast, from the Age of Apocalypse reality. Dark Beast escaped the Age of Apocalypse reality into Earth-616 and has since appeared as a major nemesis of the X-Men. Deadpool  New Mutants #98 (February 1991)  Wade Wilson is a mutant with regenerative abilities and enhanced strength. After facing terminal cancer, Wilson joined Canada's Weapon X program where he became the "merc with a mouth" known as Deadpool. Deadpool battled X-Force on several occasions, but later joined the X-Men and several variations of the team. Destiny  The Uncanny X-Men #141 (January 1981)  Irene Adler was a blind mutant with precognitive powers. Mystique's lover, Destiny foresaw many future events which she kept in a diary. Destiny was later killed in battle, though Mystique used trickery to have her revived using the Krakoan resurrection process.Inferno (vol. 2) #2 (2021) D'Ken  The Uncanny X-Men #97 (February 1976)  D'Ken Neramani was the evil brother of Lilandra Neramani and Deathbird. Donald Pierce  The Uncanny X-Men #132 (April 1980)  Donald Pierce is a cyborg and member of the Hellfire Club and the Reavers. Pierce joined the Hellfire Club to kill the other members of the Inner Circle, all of whom were mutants. He later created the cyborg mercenary group called the Reavers to battle the X-Men. He has since appeared as a member of both teams, alternating his allegiance to suit his whims. Erik the Red  X-Men #97 (February 1976)  Davan Shakari is an extraterrestrial bounty hunter employed by D'Ken Neramani of the Shi'ar Empire. Fabian Cortez  X-Men (vol. 2) #1 (October 1991)  Fabian Cortez is one of the founding members of the Acolytes, mutants devoted to Magneto. Cortez has the mutant ability to empower other mutants around him, though secretly he would slowly absorb his victims' lifeforces. Despite his many betrayals, Fabian Cortez was invited to the mutant island of Krakoa. Fenris  The Uncanny X-Men #194 (June 1985)  Andreas and Andrea von Strucker are mutant twins with the abilities to fly and generate energy blasts while holding hands with each other. Frenzy  X-Factor #4 (May 1986)  Joanna Cargill is a mutant with superhuman strength and indestructible skin. Frenzy has worked for the Alliance of Evil, the Femizons, the Acolytes, and the Marauders, though she recently reformed and joined the X-Men. She currently serves as Earth's ambassador and a member of S.W.O.R.D. Gamesmaster  The Uncanny X-Men #283 (December 1991)  A mysterious mutant with powerful telepathic abilities. Alongside Selene, the Gamesmaster organized and created the Upstarts, a competition for wealthy young individuals to kill mutants. Garokk  Astonishing Tales #2 (November 1970)  Also known as the Petrified Man, Garokk is a deity worshiped in the Savage Land. Gatecrasher  Captain Britain #3 (March 1985)  Leader of band of the extraterrestrial bounty hunters known as Technet, Gatecrasher is a massive, blue-skinned female alien with telepathic abilities. She is most often associated as an antagonist for Captain Britain and Excalibur. Gauntlet  X-Factor #65 (April 1991)  Gauntlet was the original leader of the Dark Riders. A member of the Inhumans, Gauntlet has been a member of each incarnation of the Dark Riders, though he was recently killed by Magneto. Genesis  X-Force #5 (December 1991)  Tyler Dayspring was the son of Cable who had previously taken the codename Tolliver. As Genesis, Dayspring took over leadership of the Dark Riders and plotted against Wolverine. Gideon  New Mutants #98 (February 1991)  A member of the Externals and prominent adversary of X-Force. Gideon has the mutant ability to take on the powers of nearby mutants. He was killed by Selene along with the majority of other Externals, though he has since returned without explanation. Goblin Queen/Red Queen  The Uncanny X-Men #168 (April 1983)  Madelyne Pryor is a clone of the X-Man Jean Grey and the first wife of Cyclops. Graydon Creed  The Uncanny X-Men #299 (April 1993)  Graydon Creed was the human son of Sabretooth and Mystique. Haven  X-Factor #96 (November 1993)  Radha Dastoor was a woman who believed that mutants and humans would become unified after a series of catastrophes. Haven possessed transdimensional powers that enabled her to teleport herself and others to her own pocket dimension, and battled X-Factor multiple times. She was later killed after giving birth to the Adversary. Hazard  X-Men (vol. 2) #12 (September 1992)  Carter Ryking was a mutant with plasma generation. A childhood friend of Professor X, Ryking was experimented on by Mister Sinister at a young age. He later lost his powers during Decimation, which drove him insane. He was killed while in Ryking Institute, a mental asylum. Holocaust  X-Men Alpha (February 1995)  Originally known as Nemesis, Holocaust claimed to be the son of Apocalypse. Krakoa  Giant-Size X-Men #1 (May 1975)  An island that was transformed into a living creature through radiation. Lady Mastermind  X-Treme X-Men #6 (December 2001)  Regan Wyngarde is a mutant with illusion-based powers and the daughter of the original Mastermind. Lorelei  X-Men #63 (December 1969)  Lani Ubanu is a mutate from the Savage Land with a hypnotic voice that can mesmerize male humanoids. While normally associated with the Savage Land, Lorelei is notable for being a member of one of Magneto's original Brotherhood of Evil Mutants lineups. Mastermind II  Wolverine/Gambit: Victims #1 (September 1995)  Martinique Jason is a mutant with illusion-based powers and the daughter of the original Mastermind. Masque  The Uncanny X-Men #169 (May 1983)  A former Morlock with the ability to alter the flesh and organs of living creatures. Master Mold  X-Men #15 (December 1965)  A massive Sentinel with the primary purpose of creating other Sentinels. Mesmero  X-Men #49 (October 1968)  Vincent is a mutant with the ability of hypnosis. Mikhail Rasputin  The Uncanny X-Men #285 (February 1992)  Mikhail Rasputin is a mutant with substance-altering and dimension-hopping abilities. Mimic  X-Men #19 (April 1966)  Calvin Montgomery Rankin is one of the X-Men's earliest members, and the first character to be added to the X-Men's original roster. Mimic has the mutant ability to copy the powers of those within his radius. Mortis  Dazzler #21 (November 1981)  Lois London is a mutant and sister to the X-Men's Dazzler. During Necrosha, Mortis joined Selene's Inner Circle and helped her resurrect several deceased mutants. Nanny  X-Factor #30 (July 1988)  Nanny was once a scientist employed by the Right in the field of cyborg technology. At some point, Nanny was captured by the X-Men, though her partner, Orphan-Maker, freed her. She then joined the Hellions on Krakoa. N'astirh  X-Factor #32 (October 1988)  A demon from the realm of Limbo. A former servant of Belasco, N'astirh coveted power and wished to become ruler of Limbo as well as Earth. Along with S'ym, N'astirh was responsible for the demonic event known as Inferno. He was later killed by Storm, though Magik has since resurrected the demon. Nimrod  The Uncanny X-Men #191 (March 1985)  An upgraded, vastly superior Sentinel from the future. Onslaught  X-Men (vol. 2) #53 (June 1996)  An amalgamation of the minds of Professor Charles Xavier and Magneto. Phantazia  X-Force #6 (January 1992)  Eileen Harsaw is a mutant with the ability to disrupt the electromagnetic field of those around her. Toad recruited Phantazia into his Brotherhood of Evil Mutants, realizing how powerful she was. She was later invited to join the Acolytes, but she rejected the offer. Phantazia lost her powers after Decimation, and was last seen in a mental institution repeating the words “House of M”. Proteus  The Uncanny X-Men #125 (September 1979)  Kevin MacTaggert is a reality-warping and body-possessing mutant and the son of X-Men ally Moira MacTaggert. He is a member of The Five, a group of mutants whose abilities in tandem resurrect fallen mutants within the island of Krakoa. Sat-Yr-9  Captain Britain Monthly #3 (1984)  Opul Lun Sat-Yr-9 is a mutant from Earth-794 who has battled Excalibur and Captain Britain on several occasions. Selene  New Mutants #9 (November 1983)  Selene Gallio is a mutant with an array of powers including telepathy and the ability to absorb the lifeforce from other beings. Senator Robert Kelly  The Uncanny X-Men #133 (May 1980)  A prominent United States Senator who began his career on an anti-mutant platform and tended to be an antagonist to the X-Men team. But towards the later days of his career, he began to change his views on mutants as a whole. Saturnyne  Marvel Super Heroes #380 (December 1981)  Opal Luna Saturnyne is an Omniversal Majestrix. She is cunning, deceitful and manipulative and she oversaw the battle in X of Swords between the mutants of Krakoa and mutants of Arakko. Shinobi Shaw  X-Factor #67 (June 1991)  Shinobi Shaw was a mutant with the power to alter his body's density from diamond-hard to intangible. The son of Sebastian Shaw of the Hellfire Club, Shinobi killed his father and took over his role as Black King while also working with the Upstarts, a group of individuals competing to score points by killing mutants.

After a number of deaths, Shinobi was resurrected by the X-Men on the mutant island Krakoa and recruited into the Hellfire Trading Company by his father. Siena Blaze  The Uncanny X-Men Annual #17 (June 1993)  Siena Blaze was a mutant with the ability to fire destructive blasts of electromagnetic energy. When she used her powers, she risked destroying the Earth. During her first outing, Siena Blaze nearly killed the three leaders of the X-Men in Antarctica. She was later killed at the Weapon X Neverland concentration camp, though she was resurrected by Selene much later. Stryfe  New Mutants #86 (February 1990)  A clone of Cable and major adversary of X-Force. From the same future timeline as Cable, Stryfe traveled to the past and formed the Mutant Liberation Front, a terrorist group. He was also primarily responsible for the release of the Legacy Virus, a fatal disease for mutantkind.  Sublime  New X-Men Annual 2001  John Sublime is a sentient bacterial lifeform.  Sugar Man  Generation Next #2 (April 1995)  A twisted, evil mutant from the Age of Apocalypse dimension. S'ym  The Uncanny X-Men #160 (August 1982)  A demon from the realm of Limbo. Tarn the Uncaring  Hellions #6 (November 2020)  Tarn The Uncaring is a mutant daemon hybrid who has the ability to manipulate mutant genes. He is a part of the Great Ring of Arakko and Locus Vile.   Trevor Fitzroy  The Uncanny X-Men #281 (October 1991)  Trevor Fitzroy was a mutant with the ability to absorb the lifeforce of those he touches with his hands. For many years, Fitzroy served with the Upstarts. He was later killed by the Office of National Emergency. Unus the Untouchable  X-Men #8 (November 1964)  Gunther Bain is a mutant with the ability to generate an invisible psionic field around himself. One of the X-Men's earliest foes, Unus joined a variation of Magneto's original Brotherhood of Mutants. Over the years, Unus was killed in action and later returned, but lost his powers after Decimation. Despite this, he recently appeared with his powers intact. Vanisher  X-Men #2 (November 1963)  Telford Porter was a mutant with the power of teleportation. One of the X-Men's earliest foes, Vanisher had been a member of the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants, Factor Three, Marauders, and Hellfire Club. He later joined X-Force. Vanisher was shot and killed while facing off against General Callahan. Vargas  X-Treme X-Men #1 (July 2001)  A superhuman being who considered himself to be “homo superior superior.” Vargas was killed by Harpoon of the Marauders while in possession of a piece of Destiny's diaries. Vertigo  Marvel Fanfare #1 (March 1982)  A mutate from the Savage Land with the ability to disrupt the equilibrium of living creatures. A clone of Vertigo was later recruited into the Marauders by Mister Sinister. Vulcan  X-Men: Deadly Genesis #1 (January 2006)  Gabriel Summers is a mutant with the ability to psionically manipulate, control, and absorb vast amounts of energy. Vulcan is the younger brother of X-Men members Cyclops and Havok. Wendigo  The Incredible Hulk (vol. 2) #162 (April 1973)  A monstrous race created by a curse that infects and spreads to other individuals. William Stryker  X-Men: God Loves, Man Kills (1982)  A religious fanatic with a deep hatred of mutants. X-Cutioner  The Uncanny X-Men Annual #17 (June 1993)  Carl Denti is a former FBI agent obsessed with stalking mutants who kill humans. Zaladane  Astonishing Tales #3 (December 1970)  Zaladane is a sorceress and possible mutate, most often associated with the Savage Land. While initially a priestess of Garokk, Zaladane later assisted the High Evolutionary and then afterward assumed the role of Empress of the Savage Land. Zaladane was later killed by Magneto against the protests of Rogue and Nick Fury.

Teams
Villain  First appearance  Description Acolytes  X-Men (vol. 2) #1 (1991)  A group of mutant fanatics who believe that mutants are destined to conquer and destroy normal humanity. The Acolytes were loyal and completely devoted to Magneto, who they believed to be the mutant messiah. The Acolytes were major X-Men foes throughout the 1990s, though the group has been seldom seen since.

Prominent members include Fabian Cortez, Exodus, Joseph, Lorna Dane/Polaris, Rusty Collins, Joanna Cargill/Frenzy, Amelia Voght, Unuscione, The Kleinstock Brothers, Scanner, Senyaka, and for a brief time, Colossus. Alliance of Evil  X-Factor #5 (June 1986)  A band of mutant mercenaries who have been hired by Apocalypse, A.I.M., and other criminals. The group was short-lived as Tower was killed by the X-Cutioner and Frenzy joined the Femizons and Acolytes, while Apocalypse abandoned the group for the Four Horsemen of Apocalypse. Brotherhood of Mutants  X-Men #4 (March 1964)  A team of mutants founded by Magneto to serve as the antithesis to the X-Men. The team has had many incarnations over the years, with Mystique, Toad, Exodus, Mesmero, and others leading their own versions.

Other prominent members include Mastermind, Blob, Pyro, Avalanche, Destiny, Juggernaut, Phantazia, Vanisher, and Sauron. Children of the Vault  X-Men (vol. 2) #188 (September 2006)  A group of superhuman beings that have evolved from a baseline human genome over 6,000 years.

Prominent members include Serafina, Perro, Aguja, Fuego, and Sangre. Church of Humanity  The Uncanny X-Men #399 (December 2001)  An anti-mutant Christian-based religious sect/hate group. Clan Akkaba  Rise of Apocalypse #1 (October 1996)  The descendants of Apocalypse. They first appeared in Apocalypse vs Dracula #1. While Blink and Chamber are descendants of Apocalypse, neither is considered a member of the Clan. Dark Descendants  The Uncanny X-Men #335 (August 1996)  A group of mutant worshipers of Onslaught led by Dark Beast.

Members included Havok, Fatale, Post, Holocaust, and Random. Dark Riders  X-Factor #65 (April 1991)  Also known as the Riders of the Storm, the Dark Riders are servants of Apocalypse devoted to the philosophy of the survival of the fittest. The first incarnation was composed primarily of Inhumans, though when Genesis took over as leader of the second incarnation, many mutants were added to the roster. Externals  X-Force #10 (May 1992)  A group of a rare, immortal subspecies of mutants. Prominent members include Candra, Gideon, Absalom, Crule, and Selene. Apocalypse was later revealed to be an External. Four Horsemen of Apocalypse  X-Factor #15 (April 1987)  A group of four individuals (typically mutants) that have been genetically altered and mentally conditioned to serve the immortal mutant Apocalypse. The first modern incarnation included Warren Worthington III as Death, Autumn Rolfson as Famine, Abraham Kieros as War, and Plague as Pestilence. However, Apocalypse has had several incarnations of the Horsemen over the years. 

 Death
 Death (First Horsemen)
 Archangel
 Caliban
 Gambit
 Wolverine
 Sanjar Javeed

 Famine
 Famine (First Horsemen)
 Ahab
 Autumn Rolfson
 Sunfire
 Jeb Lee

 Pestilence
 Pestilence (First Horsemen)
 Caliban
 Plague
 Polaris
 Ichisumi

 War
 War (First Horsemen)
 Abraham Kieros
 Deathbird
 Gazer
 Hulk
 Decimus Furius Freedom Force  The Uncanny X-Men #199 (November 1985)  A team of federal agents which was established as a superhero team directly accountable to the US government. The team was formed from former members of the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants's second incarnation, but almost immediately began taking on new recruits, including Spiral, Spider-Woman, Stonewall, Crimson Commando, and Super Sabre. Friends of Humanity  The Uncanny X-Men #299 (April 1993)  A human-supremacist hate group formed by Graydon Creed. Gene Nation  The Uncanny X-Men #323 (August 1995)  An offshoot of the Morlocks who blame the X-Men for their plight. Hell's Belles  X-Factor #80 (July 1992)  A group of female mercenaries led by Cyber. The Hell's Belles functioned as extortionists for high-paying drug cartels. Their membership included fire-breathing Flambé, scorching hot Briquette, invisible Vague, and the sonic wave-projecting Tremolo. The second incarnation of X-Factor was hired to protect former Belle Shrew from the group's attempts at revenge.

All of the Belles except for Briquette were depowered after Decimation. The depowered Belles were eventually invited to join Krakoa and potentially have their powers restored through the Crucible. Hellfire Club  The Uncanny X-Men #129 (January 1980)  Due to the long-standing and secretive nature of the organization, not all of its members are known. The listed members are all part of the Inner Circle, also known as the Lords Cardinal. The non-Inner Circle members include many wealthy or politically connected men and women of the Marvel Universe like Tony Stark and Norman Osborn and are generally unaware and/or uninvolved with the Club's illegal activities.

Prominent members include Emma Frost, Sebastian Shaw, Donald Pierce, Harry Leland, Selene, Shinobi Shaw, Friedrich Von Roehm and Sage (then known as Tessa). Hellions  New Mutants #16 (June 1984)  Young counterparts to the New Mutants, under Emma Frost's tutelage. Prominent members include Empath, Tarot, Catseye, Jetstream, Roulette and Thunderbird.

During Dawn of X, the Hellions team name is used by the X-Men, with a lineup including Mister Sinister, Psylocke, Scalphunter, Havok, Empath, Nanny, Orphan-Maker, and Wild Child. Heritage Initiative  X-Men Gold (vol. 2) #1 (April 2017)  An anti-mutant organization focused on harvesting the X-Gene. Its prominent members are its director Lydia Nance and Edwin Martynec. The organization is a subsidiary of Orchis Homines Verendi  Marauders #4 (December 2019)  Anti-mutant organization led by the children who once commandeered the Hellfire Club: Kade Kilgore, Manuel Enduque, Wilhelmina Kensington and Maximilian Frankenstein. Hordeculture  X-Men (vol. 5) #3 (February 2020)  A group of elderly human scientists "who specialize in the genetic manipulation of – and propagation of – all things botanical." Membership includes Augusta Bromes, Edith Scutch, Opal Vetiver, and Lily Leymus. Former member includes Harrower. Marauders  The Uncanny X-Men #210 (October 1986)  A group of mutant mercenaries recruited by Mister Sinister to serve as his strike force. Each Marauder's DNA has been stored by Sinister so that in the event of their deaths, he may clone them at a moment's notice. Each Marauder retains the memories of the clone who died before them.

Prominent members include Scalphunter, Arclight, Riptide, Vertigo, Prism, Harpoon, Malice, Sabretooth, and Gambit.

During Dawn of X, the Marauders team name is used by Kate Pryde's X-Men team consisting of Storm, Iceman, Bishop, Pyro, and Emma Frost. Morlocks  The Uncanny X-Men #169 (May 1983)  An underground society of mutant outcasts living in the sewers and abandoned tunnels beneath New York City, composed of mutant misfits, especially those with physical mutations or other conspicuous manifestations of their mutant genetics who were unable to pass as human in everyday society.

Prominent members include Callisto, Caliban, Masque, Sunder, Annalee, Beautiful Dreamer, Erg and Marrow. Mutant Liberation Front  New Mutants #86 (February 1990)  Mutant terrorists organized by Stryfe, captured by members of Operation: Zero Tolerance.X-Men (vol. 2) #65 The group appeared in the TV series The Gifted

Prominent members include Reaper, Wildside, Rusty Collins, Dragoness, Forearm, Thumbelina, Zero, Tempo, and Reignfire. Nasty Boys  X-Factor #75 (February 1992)  A gang of mutant thugs who work for Mister Sinister. Vertigo was a member of this team on the 1990s X-Men cartoon.

Prominent members include Ruckus, Hairbag, Gorgeous George, Ramrod and Slab. Neo  X-Men (vol. 2) #99 (April 2000)  An offshoot of the mutant genome that lived in seclusion from the rest of the world. Orchis  House of X #1 (September 2019)  A secretive anti-mutant organization composed of former members of A.I.M., Hydra, S.H.I.E.L.D., A.R.M.O.R., and Alpha Flight. Orchis created Mother Mold, an advanced version of Master Mold. When a team of X-Men attacked the Orchis Forge space station, they destroyed Mother Mold but perished in the resulting destruction. Purifiers  Marvel Graphic Novel #5 (January 1985)  A team created by William Stryker to rid the world of mutantkind. Reavers  The Uncanny X-Men #229 (May 1988)  A team of cyborgs led by Lady Deathstrike and Donald Pierce. The Reavers were originally created by Spiral, transforming the mortally wounded Hellfire Club mercenaries Reese, Cole, and Macon into cyborgs to save their lives. When Donald Pierce joined the team, he brought with him Skullbuster, Pretty Boy, and Bonebreaker. Cylla Markham later joined the group to replace Skullbuster after his death. Rising Sons  Generation X #53 (May 1999)  A team of adolescent Madripoor-based mercenaries composed of mutants, cyborgs and magic-users led by Dragonwing and including his sister, Spoilsport, along with The Sign, Jet-Black, Tough Love and Nightwind.  Savage Land Mutates  X-Men #62 (November 1969)  Primitive humans genetically altered by Magneto. When Magneto abandoned the Savage Land, the mutates were led by Sauron. The Sun Priestess Zaladane later took over as Empress of the Savage Land until her demise. The mutates eventually turned on Sauron, who had returned to lead, instead opting for a shared leadership between Lupa, Vertigo, and Whiteout.

Other prominent members include Amphibius, Lupo, Barbarus, Sauron, Lorelei, and Brainchild. Sentinels  X-Men #14 (November 1965)  Technology-advanced mutant-hunting robots created by humans.  Swordbearers of Arakko  X-Men (vol. 5) #12 (November 2020)  A group of mutant inhabitants of Arakko, Krakoa's sister entity, who have each been given a mythical sword. Members include Summoner, Isca the Unbeaten, Bei the Blood Moon, Redroot the Forest, Solem, the White Sword, Pogg Ur-Pogg, and Apocalypse's first Horsemen of the Apocalypse. Upstarts  The Uncanny X-Men #281 (October 1981)  Amoral thrill-seekers who wager on the life and death of others.

Prominent members include Gamesmaster, Shinobi Shaw, Trevor Fitzroy, Siena Blaze, Graydon Creed, Fenris, and Selene. Weapon P.R.I.M.E.  X-Force #10 (May 1992)  An off-shoot of the Weapon X program led by Garrison Kane.

A second version of Weapon P.R.I.M.E. later appeared, this time led by Tigerstryke. Weapon P.R.I.M.E. briefly battled X-Force and later attempted to hunt down Northstar. XENO  X-Force (vol. 6) #1 (November 2019)  XENO is an extreme anti mutant organization based out of Seoul, South Korea. Its leader is the Man with the Peacock Tattoo.

See also
 List of X-Men members

References

Enemies
Category:Lists of Marvel Comics supervillains
Category:Lists of Marvel Comics characters by organization
X-Men enemies, List of
Category:Marvel Comics supervillain teams