Hermes is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Hermes is the Olympian God of transitions and boundaries in Greek religion and mythology. Hermes first appeared in Thor #129 and was adapted by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.

Fictional character biography
Hermes is the herald of Zeus in the Olympian pantheon, and is also the god of commerce, travel, and thieves. Zeus is Hermes's father. Hermes was born to the nymph Maia on Mount Cyllene, Arcadia, in ancient Greece.Thor & Hercules: Encyclopaedia Mythologica #1. Marvel Comics

When Hermes first appeared, he was seen departing Olympus on an unknown mission.Thor #129 Alongside his fellow Olympians, he attacked the Eternals at the behest of Zeus and Odin. During this fight, Hermes battled Makkari.Thor #291-292 Hermes's role as the messenger of the goddesses involved in the creation of the Young Gods was later revealed. He was also present when Zeus granted power to Thor to help resurrect the Asgardian gods.Thor #301 Hermes next appointed Jules Keene the god of luck.Bizarre Adventures #32

When Hercules was gravely wounded fighting the Masters of Evil, Hermes abducted the injured Hercules from the New York hospital he was admitted to.The Avengers #279 Zeus blamed the Avengers for Hercules's condition, and ordered the Olympians to attack the Avengers. Hermes battled the Avengers at Zeus's behest, but was then forbidden to set foot on Earth by Zeus.The Avengers #281, 284-285 Some time later, Hermes brought Cupid a message from Venus. Later Hermes brought a message to Ares to try to convince him to return to Olympus during the attack by the Japanese God of Evil Amatsu-Mikaboshi.

Following the Fear Itself storyline, Hermes comes in on Zeus (who is in the form of Storm in his latest mating with mortal women) telling him that Hercules had broken into Ares' weapons stockade and taken some of the weapons there.Herc #6.1

Powers and abilities
Hermes possesses the typical powers of an Olympian; superhuman strength, durability, stamina, agility, and reflexes. He is immortal as well as resistant to all terrestrial diseases. Hermes can run and fly at speeds exceeding those of any other Olympian god or goddess.

Hermes is an extraordinary hand-to-hand combatant, especially at wrestling. He is also an expert thief, skilled musician, and is adept at any pursuit requiring swiftness and dexterity.

Hermes is usually armed with a short sword, forged by Hephaestus. His half-brother Apollo also created a caduceus for him, a magical device capable of controlling lesser beings, conducting ghosts, and turning objects into gold.

Other versions
In one alternate future, depicted in Hercules vol. 2 #1-4, Hermes and the other Olympians leave Olympus in the 23rd century, leaving Hercules there to father a new race of gods.

References

External links
 

Category:Characters created by Jack Kirby
Category:Characters created by Stan Lee
Category:Classical mythology in Marvel Comics
Category:Comics characters introduced in 1966
Category:Fictional gods
Category:Fictional musicians
Category:Fictional sport wrestlers
Category:Greek and Roman deities in fiction
Category:Hermes
Category:Marvel Comics characters who can move at superhuman speeds
Category:Marvel Comics characters with superhuman strength
Category:Marvel Comics martial artists