Karkas is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Karkas is a member of the Deviants, a monstrous offshoot of humanity created by the Celestials. 

 Publication history 
The character first appeared in The Eternals #8 (Jan. 1977) and was created by writer/artist Jack Kirby.

Fictional character biography
Karkas was born in Deviant Lemuria, too monstrous in appearance even by Deviant standards. He was made a slave, pitted in gladiatorial contests against others considered grotesque. Another gladiator was Ransak the Reject, who was considered hideous by the Deviants due to his normal human appearance (also interpretable as because he looked too much like an Eternal). Karkas and the Reject were pitted against each other, in a bout viewed by the Eternal Thena, in which Ransak bested Karkas. When Eson the Celestial attacked, Karkas begged Thena for sanctuary with the Deviants' enemies, the Eternals.The Eternals #8 Thena teleported both Karkas and Ransak away to Olympia.The Eternals #11-12 With Thena and Ransak, Karkas battled Zakka and Tutinax.The Eternals Annual #1 Since then the two have become friends and reside primarily with the Eternals. Karkas became a scholar.

Later, Karkas fought Thor, and then became his ally.Thor #285-289 He participated in a battle between the Olympian gods and Eternals.Thor #291-292

Later, Karkas captured Warlord Kro.The Eternals vol. 2 #9 Karkas attempted to save Margo Damian's life by tricking Ghaur.The Eternals vol. 2 #10 Karkas helped fight Ghaur's army, and was present at Margo's burial.The Eternals vol. 2 #12
Karkas later battled the Eternal Ajak, who had been transformed into a monster. He witnessed the apparent demise of Ajak and Dr. Daniel Damian.The Eternals: The Herod Factor #1  Karkas was part of the Delta Network led by Kro, assembled to challenge Ghaur's grip on the Deviants.The Avengers #370 He continued to support Kro's faction in his dispute with Ghaur for the deviant's leadership. Heroes for Hire #4-7. (1997) Marvel Comics. Black Panther vol. 3 #26-27 (2001) Marvel Comics. Karkas was briefly transformed in a gigantic monster by action of Apocalypse.The New Eternals: Apocalypse Now(2000) #1 Later, he helped Thor in a battle against the Deviants in Lemuria.Thor: The Deviants Saga#2-5 (2012) He also went with Deadpool to the Negative zone to rescue his friend Ransak.

Powers and abilities
Karkas is an adolescent, and quite intelligent and artistic despite his appearance. Karkas has superhuman strength, stamina, and durability. He has great learning abilities and a high aptitude in philosophy, and has been described as having an eidetic memory. Karkas possesses a wrinkled elephant-like red hide that is exceptionally thick and rough, making him highly resistant to injury. He has claw-like fingers on each hand, pointed teeth and an oversized head. Karkas has been described as having six digits on each limb, but has been depicted with four  or five .

Karkas wears body armor of unknown composition, designed by Eternal armorers and technicians.

References

External links
 MarvelDirectory.com's bio on Karkas
 ImmortalThor.net's bio on Karkas

Category:Characters created by Jack Kirby
Category:Comics characters introduced in 1977
Category:Fictional gladiators
Category:Marvel Comics characters with superhuman strength
Category:Marvel Comics Deviants