Mangog is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.

Publication history
The character first appeared in Thor #154 (July 1968) and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.

Fictional character biography
The character was described in his debut as being the sum total of the hatred of "a billion billion beings" - an alien race that once attempted to invade Asgard (thwarted by Odin, the ruler of Asgard and the Norse gods). Imprisoned beneath Asgard, Mangog is freed by the rock troll Ulik, in a failed bid to secure an ally against the gods. Mangog storms Asgard, intent on drawing the Odinsword from its scabbard which will end the universe. Thor battles Mangog to a standstill, until Odin dissolves the creature by breaking the spell which had created Mangog as a living prison for his entire race.Thor  #154-157 (July-Oct. 1968). Marvel Comics.

Mangog reappeared when freed by the god Loki, but was defeated when removed from the source of its power.Thor #195-198 (Jan. - April 1972). Marvel Comics. With the aid of the traitorous magician Igron, Mangog assumes the form of an imprisoned Odin, and intends to once again draw the Odinsword. After a series of skirmishes with Thor, the creature is defeated when Thor frees Odin.Thor #242 (Dec. 1975); 244 (Feb. 1975) 246-250 (April-Aug. 1976). Marvel Comics.

The character reappears twice in the second volume of Thor: as the servant of a clone of the Titan Thanos (destroyed by Thor)Thor vol. 2 #20-25 (Feb.-July 2000). Marvel Comics. and in a desolated Asgard during Ragnarok (dispelled by Thor with the Odinforce)Thor vol. 2 #84 (Nov. 2004). Marvel Comics. Mangog reappears in the Thunderstrike mini-series when accidentally summoned by a mystical generator, and is eventually defeated when cast into a distant star.Thunderstrike vol. 2 #5 (June 2011)

Reappearing in The Mighty Thor, Mangog decimates Asgard until he was hurled by Jane Foster (the new Thor) into the sun.The Mighty Thor #705 (Feb. 2018). Marvel Comics.

Powers and abilities
Mangog possesses the strength, stamina, durability and endurance of a "billion billion beings",Thor #157 (Oct. 1968). Marvel Comics. and has the ability to manipulate magic for energy projection and shapeshifting.

The character appears to be indestructible, and has stated it will always exist so long as there is hatred.Thunderstrike vol. 2 #5. Marvel Comics. Mangog is also called "the Judgement of the Gods", drawing strength from every cruel act performed by the gods.The Mighty Thor #701 (Nov. 2017). Marvel Comics.

Other versions
Heroes Reborn
In an alternate reality depicted in the 2021 "Heroes Reborn" miniseries, the Mangog became the All-Gog: Final All-Father, Destroyer of Asgard after devouring most of the Asgardians. Following this, he went on to destroy Asgard and join the Masters of Doom. While fighting Power Princess in the present however, she uses one of her gauntlets to badly injure him before turning him into a statue.Heroes Reborn vol. 2 #1. Marvel Comics.Heroes Reborn vol. 2 #6. Marvel Comics.

Marvel Fanfare
In an alternate universe, Mangog battles the Herald of Galactus, Silver Surfer.Marvel Fanfare #51 (June 1982). Marvel Comics.

What If?
Mangog attempts to take advantage of Odin's need for the Odinsleep but is stopped by Jane Foster, who has found Thor's hammer Mjolnir.What If? #10 (Aug. 1978). Marvel Comics.

Ultimate Marvel
In the Ultimate Marvel universe, Mangog is a spirit requiring a host form and battles Thor and Spider-Man.Ultimate Comics: Spider-Man #150 (Jan. 2011). Marvel Comics.

In other media
Television
Mangog appears in the Avengers Assemble episode "All-Father's Day", voiced by JB Blanc.

Video games
 Mangog appears in the Thor: God of Thunder, voiced simultaneously by Steve Blum, Robin Atkin Downes, Mitch Lewis, Lisa Moncure, and Mari Weiss.
 Mangog appears in Thor: The Dark World - The Official Game, voiced by Chris Phillips and Marc Thompson.

Board games
Mangog appears in the superhero board game Heroclix in 2017 as part of "The Mighty Thor" set of collectible miniatures.

References

External links
 
 Mangog at marvel.wikia
 Mangog at immortalthor.net

Category:Comics characters introduced in 1968
Category:Characters created by Jack Kirby
Category:Characters created by Stan Lee
Category:Marvel Comics characters who are shapeshifters
Category:Marvel Comics characters who use magic
Category:Marvel Comics characters with superhuman strength
Category:Marvel Comics supervillains
Category:Thor (Marvel Comics)