Margaret Elizabeth Carter is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. She is usually depicted as a supporting character in books featuring Captain America. Created by writer Stan Lee and artist Jack Kirby, she debuted, unnamed, in Tales of Suspense #75 as a World War II love interest of Steve Rogers in flashback sequences. She would later be better known as a relative of Captain America's modern-day significant other, Sharon Carter.

Hayley Atwell portrays the Marvel Cinematic Universe version of the character, Margaret "Peggy" Carter. She first appears in Captain America: The First Avenger (2011), with subsequent appearances in the Marvel One-Shot Agent Carter, Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014), the television series Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. and Marvel's Agent Carter, Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), a flashback in Ant-Man (2015), Avengers: Endgame (2019) and as variant versions of the character dubbed Captain Carter in the Disney+ animated series What If...? and the film Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness (2022).

Publication history
The character debuted in a single panel (and unnamed) as a wartime love interest of Captain America in Tales of Suspense #75 (March 1966), and then receiving a name in #77 (May 1966). She was created by writer Stan Lee and artist Jack Kirby."If a Hostage Should Die!" , Tales of Suspense #77 (May 1966) at the Grand Comics Database She appeared again as the older sister of Sharon Carter in Captain America #161 (May 1973). She was later retconned as Sharon's aunt, then later great-aunt, due to the unaging nature of comic book characters (see Captain America vol. 5 #25 (April 2007)). The character has appeared frequently in Captain America stories set during World War II.

Fictional character biography
Dr.Marvel Super-Heroes vol. 2 #4 Peggy Carter joins the French Resistance as a teenager and becomes a skilled fighter, who serves on several operations alongside Captain America.Catherine Saunders, Heather Scott, Julia March, and Alastair Dougall, editors, 2008, Marvel Chronicle: A year by Year History, London: Dorling Kindersley, p. 115; . The two fall in love, but an exploding shell gives her amnesia and she is sent to live with her parents in Virginia.Tales of Suspense #77. Marvel Comics.

During the "Original Sin" storyline, it was revealed in 1952 that Peggy Carter worked with Howard Stark and Woody McCord when they investigated an alien ship in Siberia.Operation S.I.N. #1. Marvel Comics. The three of them worked to keep the alien from being taken by Hydra and had the alien live with Anton Vanko.Operation S.I.N. #2-5. Marvel Comics.

In the 1960s, Peggy Carter joined up with S.H.I.E.L.D. for a long tenure.Agent Carter: S.H.I.E.L.D. Anniversary #1. Marvel Comics.

At the time when Captain America resurfaced in the world, Peggy Carter was taking treatments from Doctor Faustus. When she was rescued by Captain America, she maintained her friendship with him.Captain America #161-163. Marvel Comics.

Peggy Carter later helped Captain America fight the Secret Empire.Captain America #174-175. Marvel Comics. She also dealt with his decision to stop being Captain America for a while.Captain America #176. Marvel Comics.

Peggy helps Captain America when her niece Sharon Carter and some S.H.I.E.L.D. Agents went missing while gathering information on the new Grand Director.Captain America #231-236. Marvel Comics.

Peggy Carter later joined the Avengers' support staff at Avengers Mansion.The Avengers #300. Marvel Comics.

During her retirement, Peggy lived in a nursing home and started suffering dementia where she couldn't recognize Sharon. William Burnside later visited Peggy claiming to be the original Captain America.Captain America vol. 5 #45. Marvel Comics. Following her death, S.H.I.E.L.D. erected a memorial statue of her outside the S.H.I.E.L.D. Academy in Newark.Silk vol. 2 #8. Marvel Comics. Steve Rogers, Nick Fury, and Dum Dum Dugan attended her funeral.

Through unknown means, Peggy Carter was revived and rejuvenated where she joined Sharon in forming the Daughters of Liberty under the alias of Dryad. Besides Sharon, the only other people who knew were Falcon and Winter Soldier.Captain America vol. 9 #19. Marvel Comics. She assisted the group in working to clear Captain America's name when he was framed for the death of Thunderbolt Ross. Dryad fought Ross' real murder Foreigner until Crossbones and Sin fired a missile at them. Dryad survived while Foreigner presumably perishes.Captain America vol. 9 #9-11. Marvel Comics. She secretly assists Winter Soldier into feeding false intel on Captain America's whereabouts to Nick Fury Jr. in order to throw him off. After getting some intel from Baron Strucker's mind, Peggy's location is stormed by Nick Fury Jr. and his men while Peggy was asking Sharon when she is going to tell Captain America about her revival. Peggy tells Nick Fury Jr. that he and his men will have to go through her first if they want to get to Captain America. Peggy subdues the soldiers and holds Nick Fury Jr. at gunpoint in order to straighten him out.Captain America vol. 9 #12-13. Marvel Comics. Deciding it's time to let Steve know about her return, Peggy arranged for Daughters of Liberty teammate Agatha Harkness to bring Steve to her. She revealed to him that she has been tracking Aleksander Lukin ever since the event where Lukin and Selene took a soul fragment from Sharon. In addition, Peggy stated to Steve that Lukin was behind the death of Thunderbolt Ross, the attacks of the Watchdogs, and the new Scourge. Sharon, Falcon, and Winter Soldier enter while explaining why they kept Peggy's revival a secret. Peggy and Winter Soldier reveal to Steve that the soul fragment that manifested as a stone was used to revive Lukin which also revived the remnants of Red Skull's mind that is in him.

Abilities
Peggy Carter is shown to be a superb hand-to-hand combatant and martial artist, also excelling in using firearms. She is a highly trained spy, tactician, strategist, and commander.

As Dryad, Peggy wears a type of battle armor that is strong enough to protect her from a missile attack and keep her insulated when it is ablaze.

Other versions
Amalgam Comics
In Super-Soldier: Man of War #1 from Amalgam Comics, Mademoiselle Peggy is a cross between Peggy Carter and DC Comics' World War II version of Mademoiselle Marie.Super-Soldier: Man of War #1 (June 1997). Amalgam Comics.

Captain Carter
As a result of the success of the new Captain Carter from the What If...? animated series, Marvel introduced a similar character in the comic Captain Carter #1. It is set in its own universe, unrelated to the main Marvel universe or the MCU one. Captain Carter is cryogenically frozen from WWII up to the modern day, as in the usual origin story of Captain America, and discovers that HYDRA is still active.Captain Carter #1. Marvel Comics.

Another Captain Carter, similar to the MCU character as well, appeared in Avengers Forever #4, a crossover involving the multiverse and many alternate versions of characters. She alongside Warbow and War Widow find Moon Knight and Vision from Earth-818 at the Center of Infinity and recruit them into Avenger Prime's army.Avengers: Forever Vol. 2 #4. Marvel Comics.

The concept of Peggy Carter serving as Captain America was created for the game Marvel Puzzle Quest for Captain America's 75th anniversary. She was adapted into the third series of the comic Exiles.

Exiles
In Exiles Vol. 3, the titular team is joined by a Peggy Carter who became the Captain America of her universe and a female version of Bucky Barnes named Becky Barnes.Exiles (2018) #8-12Future Foundation (2019) #3

House of M
In the alternate reality created by Scarlet Witch in the 2005 "House of M" storyline, Captain America is never frozen in the Arctic, and instead marries Peggy shortly after World War II ends.Captain America vol. 5 #10 (Oct. 2005). Marvel Comics.

Spider-Gwen
On Earth-65, Peggy Carter (designed after Hayley Atwell) is the long-lived director of S.H.I.E.L.D., much like Nick Fury in the primary universe. She also sports an eye patch similar to the one worn by Fury,Spider-Gwen #2 later recruiting an amnesiac Manji, the Immortal Mr. Murderhands to work for her as an assassin.Spider-Gwen Vol 2. #20

In other media
Marvel Cinematic Universe

thumb|upright|right|Hayley Atwell, who portrays Peggy Carter in the MCU, at San Diego Comic-Con in 2015
Peggy Carter appears in media set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), portrayed by Hayley Atwell. This version is a British agent of the Strategic Scientific Reserve before becoming co-founding S.H.I.E.L.D. with Howard Stark and the aunt of Sharon Carter. She first appears in the live-action film Captain America: The First Avenger before making subsequent appearances in the live-action Marvel One-Shot Agent Carter, the live-action TV series Agent Carter and Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., and the live-action films Captain America: The Winter Soldier,"Captain America: The Winter Soldier Begins Filming". Marvel Comics. April 8, 2013. Avengers: Age of Ultron, and Ant-Man. While she does not appear in the live-action film Captain America: Civil War, she is stated to have died. Additionally, alternate timeline versions of Peggy appear in the live-action films Avengers: Endgame and Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness (2022) as well as the Disney+ animated series What If...?

Television
 Peggy Carter appears in the "Captain America segment" of The Marvel Super Heroes, voiced by Peg Dixon.
 Peggy Carter, based on the MCU incarnation, appears in the Avengers Assemble episode "New Year's Resolution", voiced by Hayley Atwell.

Video games
 Peggy Carter, based on the MCU incarnation, appears in Captain America: Super Soldier, voiced again by Hayley Atwell.
 Peggy Carter appears in Lego Marvel's Avengers, voiced again by Hayley Atwell.
 Peggy Carter appears in Marvel Puzzle Quest.
 An alternate universe version of Carter who became Captain America also appears as a playable character.
 Peggy Carter as Captain America appears in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2.

See also
 List of Marvel Comics superhero debuts

References

External links
 Peggy Carter at Marvel Database
 Margaret "Peggy" Carter  at the Comic Book DB
 Peggy Carter at Comic Vine

 
Category:British superheroes
Category:Characters created by Stan Lee
Category:Characters created by Jack Kirby
Category:Comics characters introduced in 1966
Category:Fictional British Army officers
Category:Fictional British secret agents
Category:Fictional characters from Virginia
Category:Fictional immigrants to the United States
Category:Fictional Special Air Service personnel
Category:Fictional female martial artists
Category:Fictional female secret agents and spies
Category:Fictional military strategists
Category:Fictional spymasters
Category:Fictional women soldiers and warriors
Category:Fictional World War II veterans
Category:Marvel Comics martial artists
Category:Marvel Comics superheroes
Category:Marvel Comics female superheroes
Category:S.H.I.E.L.D. agents
Category:United Kingdom-themed superheroes