Quicksilver (Pietro Maximoff) is a  fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character first appeared in the comic book The Uncanny X-Men #4 (March 1964) and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. The character has since starred in two self-titled limited series and has historically been depicted as a regular team member in superhero title The Avengers.

Quicksilver has the superhuman ability to move at great speeds. In most depictions, he is a mutant, a human born with innate superhuman powers. In comic book stories beginning in 2015, he is the product of genetic experimentation by the High Evolutionary. Quicksilver most commonly appears in fiction associated with the X-Men, having been introduced as an adversary for the superhero team. In later stories, he became a superhero himself. He is the twin brother of the Scarlet Witch and, in most depictions, the son of Magneto and the half-brother of Polaris.

Debuting in the Silver Age of comic books, Quicksilver has featured in several decades of Marvel continuity, starring in the self-titled series Quicksilver and as a regular team member in superhero title the Avengers. 

The character has also appeared in a range of movie, television, and video game adaptations. Two separate live-action versions of Quicksilver have been adapted by two different film studios: Aaron Taylor-Johnson portrayed the character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) franchise, appearing in Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014) as a cameo and Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015) while Evan Peters portrayed him in the 20th Century Fox films X-Men: Days of Future Past (2014), X-Men: Apocalypse (2016) and Dark Phoenix (2019), as well as a cameo in Deadpool 2 (2018). Peters later appeared as an imposter Pietro in the MCU television series WandaVision (2021), as a nod to his past role.

Publication history
thumb|175px|left|Quicksilver as appeared on the cover of Avengers vol. 1, #75 (April 1970). Art by John Buscema and Tom Palmer.
Quicksilver first appears in X-Men #4 (March 1964) and was created by writer Stan Lee and artist/co-writer Jack Kirby. The character initially appears as an antagonist to the X-Men, although before long he becomes a member of the Avengers and appears as a regular character in that title beginning with The Avengers #16 in May 1965. He has made numerous other appearances in that title, and other related titles, sometimes as a member of the team, sometimes as an ally, and sometimes as an antagonist.

From 1991 to 1993 Quicksilver was a regular character in the first volume of X-Factor. The series emphasized the character's irritability and arrogance, which writer Peter David felt were a natural consequence of his powers, explaining: 

Quicksilver also starred in Quicksilver, a regular ongoing eponymous series that began in November 1997 and ran for 13 issues.

The character also played a pivotal role in the House of M and Avengers: The Children's Crusade.

Quicksilver appeared as a supporting character in Avengers Academy from issue #1 (August 2010) through its final issue #39 (January 2013). He appears as one of the members of All-New X-Factor, which was launched in 2014 as part of the second Marvel NOW! wave. Writer Peter David's handling of the character in that book earned the character a 2014 @ssie award from Ain't It Cool News. 
AICN's Matt Adler commented that David writes the character best and that the "arrogant, impatient speedster" made the title worth following."AICN COMICS 10th Annual @$$IE AWARDS Day Five: Best Crossover/Event! Favorite Superhero! Best Ongoing Series!" . Ain't It Cool News. March 7, 2014.

Fictional character biography
Pietro and his twin sister, Wanda, were raised by Django and Marya Maximoff, a Romani couple. As adolescents, Pietro Django Maximoff and his sister Wanda discovered that they had peculiar talents. When Django began to steal food to feed his starving family, enraged villagers attacked the Roma camp. Using his phenomenal speed, Pietro fled from the camp with his sister. Over the next few years, Wanda and Pietro wandered Central Europe, living off the land.

The character first appears with Wanda, now called the Scarlet Witch, as a part of the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants. The siblings were originally presented as mutants, with Pietro possessing superhuman speed and Wanda able to control probability. The pair are recruited by Magneto after he saves Wanda from a mob after she accidentally causes a house to burst into flame. Quicksilver stays with her to protect her.X-Men #4 (March 1964). Marvel Comics. After several confrontations with the X-Men,X-Men #5 (May 1964); #6 (July 1964); #7 (September 1964). Marvel Comics. they depart when Magneto and his lackey the Toad are abducted by the cosmic entity the Stranger.X-Men #11 (May 1965). Marvel Comics. They then travel back to Europe. Pietro and his sister reform and are recruited by Iron Man to the superhero team the Avengers, after they discover they are advertising for new members and want to get support for themselves.The Avengers #16 (May 1965). Marvel Comics.

Together with the leader Captain America and former villain Hawkeye, the four become the second generation of Avengers, and are later dubbed "Cap's Kooky Quartet". Quicksilver first thinks he should be the leader and would sometimes quarrel with the other members. The Scarlet Witch becomes close friends with Hawkeye and both become loyal members of the team until Wanda is accidentally shot on a mission against Magneto. Quicksilver then flees from the Avengers with his wounded sister.The Avengers #47-49 (December 1968 – February 1969). Marvel Comics. The pair accompany Magneto back to his mid-Atlantic base,Uncanny X-Men #43 (April 1968). Marvel Comics. where he captures the X-MenUncanny X-Men #44 (May 1968) and Pietro skirmishes with the X-Man Cyclops.The Uncanny X-Men #45 (June 1968). Marvel Comics. The twins finally realize that Magneto is the true villain. Pietro and Wanda reappear in the title X-Men and are then kidnapped along with several other mutants by the robot Sentinels, and are subsequently freed by the X-Men.X-Men #59-60 (August – September 1969). Marvel Comics.

The character reappears in the title The Avengers, and advises the team that Wanda has been kidnapped and taken to another dimension by the warlord Arkon.The Avengers #75-76 (April – May 1970). Marvel Comics. After Wanda is rescued, Pietro and his sister rejoin the team. During one mission Quicksilver is wounded by a SentinelThe Avengers #104 (October 1972). Marvel Comics. and is found by Crystal, a member of the Inhumans.Fantastic Four #131 (February 1973). Marvel Comics. Crystal nurses Pietro back to health, and the pair are eventually married.Fantastic Four #150 (September 1974). Marvel Comics. Pietro and Wanda also meet Robert Frank—formerly World War II hero, the Whizzer—who was present at Mount Wundagore (the birthplace of the siblings) with his wife at the time of their birth. Frank briefly joins the Avengers, believing Pietro and Wanda to be his children.Giant-Size Avengers #1 (1974). Marvel Comics. The Scarlet Witch also becomes romantically involved with her Avengers teammate, the Android Vision. Although Pietro initially disapproves, he eventually gives his blessing to their marriage.Giant-Size Avengers #4 (1975). Marvel Comics.

Quicksilver features with the Inhumans and Fantastic Four against the villain Sphinx,Fantastic Four Annual #12 (1977). Marvel Comics. and the siblings' origin is explored in the title Avengers when a Romani man by the name Django Maximoff, (who is soon revealed to be their biological father), kidnaps Pietro and Wanda and returns to Mount Wundagore in the country of Transia, where they were born. After a battle with the Avengers against the Elder God Chthon, the siblings learn from Bova, one of the New Men created by the High Evolutionary, that they are the children of Maximoff, and not Robert Frank.The Avengers #185–187 (July – September 1979). Marvel Comics. Quicksilver then returns to Attilan (city of the Inhumans)The Avengers #188 (October 1979). Marvel Comics. and is revealed to have had a daughter (Luna) with Crystal.Fantastic Four #240 (March 1982). Marvel Comics.

During the limited series Vision and the Scarlet Witch, Magneto forces Bova to reveal the truth about his missing children, who are revealed to be Pietro and Wanda. After their mother Magda dies in childbirth, the children are given by the High Evolutionary to Django Maximoff to raise as his own. Pietro and Wanda reject Magneto when told.Vision and the Scarlet Witch #1-4 (November 1982 – February 1983). Marvel Comics. His marriage to Crystal is also strained when she has an affair.Vision and the Scarlet Witch vol. 2 #1-12 (October 1985 – September 1986). Marvel Comics. Crystal's uncle Maximus the Mad uses technology to cause Quicksilver to become psychotic.X-Factor Annual #2 (January 1987). Marvel Comics. This drove him to frame the Avengers for treason as his perceptions are twisted to perceive them as having 'betrayed' him, forcing them to escape the government-sponsored Freedom Force, and then deal with Quicksilver's new 'team' of LMD-based duplicates of the Zodiac, until the Vision convinces Pietro to stand down by showing him images of his newborn nephews.West Coast Avengers Annual #1 (1986). Marvel Comics.

Quicksilver battles the West Coast AvengersWest Coast Avengers #33-36 (July – September 1988). Marvel Comics. and is captured by the Inhumans and cured of his condition. In an effort to repent for his actions, Pietro aids the Avengers West Coast against Magneto and the villain Immortus, who has captured Wanda.Avengers West Coast #56-57 (March – April 1990); 60-62 (August – October 1990). Marvel Comics. Although successful, Pietro refuses to return to Crystal and joins the U.S. government-sponsored superhero team X-Factor.X-Factor #71-#94 (October 1991 – September 1993). Marvel Comics. The character and Crystal are reunited during the storyline "Bloodties" when the Avengers, X-Factor and X-Men team to stop a group of mutant terrorists who kidnap their daughter Luna, and are responsible for a civil war on the island nation of Genosha. After dealing with the threat, Quicksilver learns of Crystal's relationship with Avenger the Black KnightThe Avengers #343 (January 1992). Marvel Comics. and leaves, also resigning from X-Factor.Bloodties - The Avengers #368 (November 1993); X-Men #26 (November 1993); Avengers West Coast #101 (December 1993); The Uncanny X-Men #307 (December 1993) & The Avengers #369 (December 1993). Marvel Comics.

Quicksilver takes his daughter Luna and travels to Mt. Wundergore, aiding the High Evolutionary and his Knights of Wundagore against Exodus and the Man Beast. Quicksilver uses the experimental Isotope E to augment his powers, allowing him to move at greater supersonic speeds. A future version of Pietro called "Nestor" appears and reveals that his powers are not speed but rather temporal based.Quicksilver #1-12 (November 1997 – November 1998). Marvel Comics. Quicksilver also rejoins a reformed Avengers.The Avengers vol. 3 #1 (February 1998). Marvel Comics.

With half-sister Polaris, Quicksilver spies on their father Magneto, who is now the ruler of Genosha. Quicksilver is banished when he rallies the Avengers against Magneto.Magneto Rex #1 (April 1999); #2-3 (June – July 1999). Marvel Comics.

House of M
Quicksilver plays a pivotal role in the limited series House of M, convincing his now mentally unstable sister Wanda to use her abilities to warp reality and create a world where mutants are in a majority and humans are the minority. Thanks to Wolverine retaining his memories, along with the mysterious Layla Miller, many of Earth's heroes regain their memories and battle Magneto, who also remembers and realizes that Pietro is to blame for this mistake. Magneto kills Quicksilver (crushing his body with a robot Sentinel) in a rage at this perceived 'abuse' of his dream, although the character is resurrected and the normal reality restored when the Scarlet Witch witnesses this, telling Magneto he cares more for mutants than his own children. In retaliation the Scarlet Witch has also depowered 98% of the mutant population, which by accident includes Quicksilver.House of M #1-2 (August 2005); #3-4 (September 2005); #5-6 (October 2005); #7 (November 2005); #8 (December 2005). Marvel Comics.

Son of M
The story continues in the limited series Son of M, with Quicksilver, desperate to regain his powers, exposing himself to the Terrigen Mist (the source of the Inhumans' mutations and abilities) and inserts Terrigen crystals into his body—all without permission from Black Bolt. Courtesy of the Terrigen crystals, Quicksilver gains new "time jumping" powers and kidnaps his daughter Luna. Quicksilver discovers the crystals can restore mutant abilities but have an extreme effect on non-Inhuman physiology, causing several deaths.Son of M #1-6 (February – July 2006) & X-Factor #20 (June 2007). Marvel Comics. Quicksilver and Crystal meet again in the direct sequel, limited series Silent War when Black Bolt demands the return of the crystals. When Crystal sees how he has mutated, she declares their marriage annulled according to Inhuman law.Silent War #1-6 (March – August 2007). Marvel Comics.

In the title X-Factor, the crystals are removed from Quicksilver's body by Rictor, leaving him powerless once again.X-Factor #20 (June 2007). Marvel Comics. Destitute and jailed for vagrancy in the one-shot X-Factor: The Quick and the Dead, Quicksilver has a series of hallucinations and inexplicably regains his super speed. Escaping jail, Quicksilver rescues an innocent and rediscovers his desire to be a hero.X-Factor: The Quick and the Dead #1 (July 2008). Marvel Comics.

Mighty Avengers
Quicksilver appears in the title The Mighty Avengers and is used as a pawn by Elder God Chthon, with the character's spirit trapped in the arcane tome called the Darkhold. The Avengers defeat Chthon, and Quicksilver's consciousness is "downloaded" into the body of Vision, before being restored to his own body.The Mighty Avengers #21-23 (January – March 2009). Marvel Comics. Quicksilver joins the team after learning that it is Wanda (Asgardian god Loki in disguise) who brought the team together.The Mighty Avengers #24 (April 2009). Marvel Comics. After the events of the Secret Invasion storylineSecret Invasion #1 - 8 (June 2008 – January 2009). Marvel Comics. the character is publicly exonerated of former crimes, with an unknown Skrull being blamed (although Hank Pym, Maximoff's daughter Luna, and Avengers butler Edwin Jarvis are aware of the lie). Quicksilver also resumes wearing his original green costume.The Mighty Avengers #25 (July 2009). Marvel Comics. Quicksilver loses the respect of his daughter Luna when he lies to the Inhumans and claims that many of his past actions were actually perpetrated by a Skrull impostor,The Mighty Avengers #31 (January 2010). Marvel Comics. although Pym tolerates the lie as he feels that Quicksilver deserves a chance to redeem himself.

Quicksilver finally learns that the person he thought was his sister is actually Loki in disguise. Enraged, he and the rest of the team travel to the Isle of Silence to set a trap for the god of mischief. After imprisoning Loki in a device designed by Hank Pym, he begins torturing the god for information about Wanda's whereabouts. Loki offers no information about her and manages to contact Thor to beg for his help. Thor arrives and attacks Quicksilver for the way he is treating Loki. He is able to outrun the thunder god's lightning but is eventually overpowered.The Mighty Avengers #34 (April 2010). Marvel Comics. He is one of the Avengers who joins Hercules, Amadeus Cho and their allies in an assault on Olympus Group Headquarters. He battles Amazon warrior women alongside ZeusThe Incredible Hercules #139 (February 2010). Marvel Comics. and helps a wounded Wolverine defeat the Huntsman, stabbing him through the chest with his own weapon.The Incredible Hercules #141 (April 2010). Marvel Comics.

Quicksilver is later summoned by the Ghost using Amadeus Cho's technology, to defend Asgard against the Thunderbolts. He single-handedly defeats Mister X who is in possession of the Spear of Odin. Mr. X is not able to react quickly enough despite his abilities and Quicksilver viciously beats him down with a piece of debris.The Mighty Avengers #35. Marvel Comics. He is seen alongside the other Avengers against the Void-possessed Sentry in the events of Siege.The Mighty Avengers #36. Marvel Comics.

Avengers: The Children's Crusade
Quicksilver is searching for his sister in Wundagore when Magneto and the Young Avengers go to find the Scarlet Witch. After trying to abduct his nephew Wiccan so he can assist him in finding his sister, he is stopped by his father and his other nephew, Speed. After Wiccan suggests that maybe Magneto actually did want to make up for his past, he became angry and said, "Nephew the last time I allowed myself to believe that..... My father tried to kill me". Quicksilver prepares to fight his father but when debris from his rampage strikes his sister it is found that the Scarlet Witch there is actually a Doombot in disguise. The journey takes Quicksilver and his comrades all the way to Latveria so they rescue the Scarlet Witch. After the Scarlet Witch turns herself into the X-Men and the Avengers a fight breaks out between the two groups. After being knocked out along with all the other Avengers and X-Men by his sister, he is finally reunited with his sister.Avengers: The Children's Crusade #2. Marvel Comics.

Heroic Age
Quicksilver joins the teaching staff of Avengers Academy to teach young students how to become heroes. He does so in order to distance himself from the legacy of his father Magneto.Avengers Academy #1. Marvel Comics. One of the new students, Finesse, figures out that his story about being abducted by Skrulls is a lie. She blackmails him into giving her "private lessons" on everything he learned during his time with the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants.Avengers Academy #2. Marvel Comics. Finesse convinces Quicksilver to help her search for the Taskmaster, who might be her biological father. After arriving at what they thought was an abandoned training camp, they found it still in use and quickly captured the criminals they found there. Quicksilver returned to the mansion and encountered Tigra, who was upset because some of the students assaulted the Hood on her behalf. During a heated exchange Quicksilver managed to convince her that kicking them out of Avengers Academy for trying to help would only turn them against becoming heroes.Avengers Academy #9. Marvel Comics. At the new campus for the Avengers Academy (where the Faculty are offering to train other superpowered youths), Quicksilver is revealed to be mentoring Lightspeed as a teacher's assistant.Avengers Academy #21. Marvel Comics.

In the miniseries "Magneto: Not a Hero", Joseph is resurrected under unknown circumstances and forms a new Brotherhood of Mutants with Astra and mutated deformed versions of Blob, Mastermind, Quicksilver, Scarlet Witch, and Toad. It is soon revealed that the mutated versions of Blob, Mastermind, Quicksilver, Scarlet Witch and Toad are clones created by Joseph.Magneto: Not a Hero #1-4. Marvel Comics.

Quicksilver has joined the privately owned superhero team X-Factor.All-New X-Factor #1. Marvel Comics. When confronted during a press conference by Fatale over his actions meant to repower mutants and his lying about a Skrull having been responsible, Pietro finally admitted in public that he had been responsible and had tried to avoid facing the consequences; by doing this, he earned his daughter's respect back, and the two reconciled.All-New X-Factor #12. Marvel Comics.

Wanda and other heroes and villains experienced a moral inversion during a clash with the Red Onslaught.Avengers & X-Men: AXIS #3. Marvel Comics. Quicksilver and Magneto try to talk the inverted Wanda down, but when Wanda attacks them with a curse designed to punish her blood relatives that only affects Quicksilver, Wanda realizes that Magneto is not their biological father.Avengers & X-Men: AXIS #7. Marvel Comics.

Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch later take a trip to Counter-Earth.Uncanny Avengers vol. 2 #1-2. Marvel Comics. After being tracked down and defeated by Luminous (a female who was created by the genetic material of Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver), Pietro and Wanda were brought to the High Evolutionary himself. He revealed to them that they are actually the long thought deceased children of Django and Marya Maximoff, Anna and Mateo. He also told them the truth where they were not mutants at all, but they had been experimented on by the High Evolutionary. After escaping from the High Evolutionary's experimentations, Pietro and Wanda located the Avengers Unity Division (who had traveled to the Counter-Earth looking for the twins) and helped the inhabitants of Lowtown (a refuge for the High Evolutionary's rejects) from their creator's assault.Uncanny Avengers vol. 2 #4. Marvel Comics. After the High Evolutionary is defeated and he escapes into a portal with Luminous, Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch return to Earth with the Avengers Unity Division.Uncanny Avengers vol. 2 #5. Marvel Comics.

All-New, All-Different Marvel
When the second superhero Civil War began, Pietro came to ask Wanda for help, but Wanda refused, because she and Pietro disagreed on which side was right - Pietro not liking the idea of profiling people based on what they might do and Wanda feeling that thinking about the future would have prevented many of their more dangerous mistakes in the past - past precedent made Wanda feel that introducing her powers to a conflict of this nature could be more dangerous than the existing situation, and she resented Pietro still trying to tell her what to do as though she was a child, bluntly informing him that his refusal to learn from his mistakes marked him as a sociopath. Wanda reveals to him that she is seeking answers about their true biological mother, Natalya Maximoff (who gave the twins to her relatives Marya and Django to spare them from a difficult life) and asks him to join her. He refuses and the two fight, although Wanda bests Quicksilver and tells him she never wants to see him again.Scarlet Witch vol. 2 #9. Marvel Comics. Natalya's spirit later summons Pietro during their final battle against a physical manifestation of Chaos. The twins reconcile after destroying the monster and Pietro is briefly able to meet his mother before she sacrifices herself to save witchcraft.Scarlet Witch vol. 2 #14. Marvel Comics. He has also been revealed to have fallen under the telepathic control of the Red Skull, acting as a 'sleeper agent' in the Avengers as part of the Skull's current campaign.

During the "Secret Empire" storyline, Quicksilver appears as a member of the Underground which is a resistance movement against Hydra, following their take over of the United States.Secret Empire #1. Marvel Comics. Quicksilver and Hercules lead a strike force to find the Cosmic Cube fragments so that they can use it to restore Captain America and the country to normal.Secret Empire #2. Marvel Comics.

Marvel Legacy
During the "Avengers: No Surrender” Storyline, Quicksilver is one of the heroes remaining in the cosmic game between Grandmaster and Challenger.The Avengers #675. Marvel Comics. He is frozen because of Scarlet Witch’s attempt at reviving the frozen Vision,The Avengers #677. Marvel Comics. but the process was later reversed.The Avengers #678. Marvel Comics. He later uses his extreme agility and Scarlet Witch's powers to catch the beacon trapping his fellow Avengers, but in doing so he had pushed himself to the limit and apparently died.The Avengers #688. Marvel Comics. But in the following mini-storyline of Quicksilver: No Surrender, it is revealed that he became stuck in an alternate dimension, ultimately getting himself free and returning to the Avengers.Quicksilver: No Surrender #1-5. Marvel Comics.

During the "Empyre" storyline, Quicksilver, Mockingbird, and Wonder Man deal with the Kree and the Skrull's fight with the Cotati near Navojoa. When Quicksilver is hit by special spheres fired by the Cotati magicians, Mockingbird and Wonder Man come to his aid and help the Kree and the Skrull turn the tide against the Cotati.Empyre: Avengers #1. Marvel Comics. Quicksilver recovers his stamina and uses his super-speed to break up the fight and dispose of the Kree and Skrull weapons in the Gulf of California.Empyre: Avengers #2-3. Marvel Comics.

Powers and abilities
Quicksilver was originally presented as a mutant capable of moving and thinking at superhuman speeds. Originally capable of running at the speed of sound, exposure to the High Evolutionary's Isotope E made it possible for the character to run at supersonic speeds of up to Mach 10 and resist the effects of friction, reduced oxygen, and kinetic impact while moving at super-speeds.Avengers vs. X-Men #2. Marvel Comics. Also, he has a fast metabolism and can heal more rapidly than the average human. His speed allows him to perform such feats as creating cyclone-strength winds and running up walls or across bodies of water.Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe Vol 2 #10. Marvel Comics.Avengers Vol 3 #40. Marvel Comics. Pietro's mind can perceive information with a photographic memory short term, becoming faster than the speed of thought, because he can shift his thoughts at a speed faster than normal thought.Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe A to Z #9. Marvel Comics. Also, he can cause vibrations in his body to transfer to solid material and has superior agility and reflexes compared to other mutants. It has been revealed that one of the reasons for his abrasive and impatient personality is that it seems to him that the rest of the world is moving in slow motion and that he is constantly waiting for it to catch up. As he once explained, "Have you ever stood in line at a banking machine behind a person who didn't know how to use it?... Now, imagine, Doctor, that everyone you work with, everywhere you go, your entire world is filled with people who can't work cash machines".X-Factor #87: "The X-Amination". Marvel Comics.

Quicksilver lost his powers of speed when his sister removed most of his powers, but he gains new powers courtesy of the inhumans' Terrigen Mist. The mist gives Quicksilver the ability to displace himself out of mainstream time and space and "jump" into the future. He can summon several time-displaced duplicates of himself and appear to teleport by "jumping" into the future and then returning to the present at a new location.Son of M #2. Marvel Comics.Son of M #6. Marvel Comics. By voluntarily embedding fragments of the Terrigen Crystals into his own body, he could empower former mutants with extreme versions of their superhuman abilities.X-Factor Vol 3 #7. Marvel Comics. However, the effect was usually fatal.X-Factor Vol 3 #11. Marvel Comics. The crystals were subsequently forced from his body by the mutant Rictor, leaving him without these abilities. After having a series of hallucinations, Quicksilver saw a woman in mortal danger and felt a desire to be a hero which made him regain his original powers in order to save the woman's life.X-Factor: The Quick and the Dead #1. Marvel Comics. Later on, Quicksilver regained these enhanced powers of time "jumping" and temporal duplication for a while by physically imbedding the crystals into his flesh.Silent War #3-4. Marvel Comics.

It was later revealed that Quicksilver actually was a normal child that was put through several experiments by the High Evolutionary which granted his powers in the first place.

 Reception 

 Accolades 

 In 2006, IGN ranked Quicksilver 23rd in their  "Top 25 X-Men Of All Time" list, commenting that "Quicksilver was the shining example of a villain turned good." 
 In 2012, IGN ranked Quicksilver 44th in their "Top 50 Avengers" list.
 In 2018, CBR.com ranked Quicksilver 10th in their "25 Fastest Characters In The Marvel Universe" list.
 In 2020, CBR.com ranked Quicksilver 5th in their "10 Greatest Speedsters In Comics" list.
 In 2021, Screen Rant ranked Quicksilver 3rd in their "10 Fastest X-Men In Marvel Comics" list.
 In 2021, Looper ranked Quicksilver 7th in their "Fastest Speedsters In History" list.
 In 2022, CBR.com ranked Quicksilver 8th and Ultimate Quicksilver 6th in their "20 Fastest Speedsters" list.
 In 2022, Collider included Quicksilver in their "Top 5 Fastest Superheroes" list.

Other versions

JLA/Avengers
In the DC/Marvel crossover JLA/Avengers, Pietro first appears being brainwashed by Starro when the Avengers battle him. Thanks to a combination of Wanda's magic and Ms. Marvel's powers, they manage to get Starro's probe off of him.JLA/Avengers #1. Marvel Comics. When he and the other Avengers go to the DC Universe, he becomes fascinated with the Speed Force, seeking to empower by it and defeating The Flash (Wally West), but he fails twice. During the final battle in the Savage Land, he finally defeats the Flash, but only does so because there is no Speed Force in the Marvel Universe.JLA/Avengers #2. Marvel Comics. He makes an appearance in the final battle with Krona, but it is very brief. He also appears at the end as one of the heroes that started out the entire event.JLA/Avengers #4. Marvel Comics.

Marvel Zombies
In the limited series Marvel Zombies, Earth-2149 is contaminated with a virus that turns victims into flesh-eating zombies, with Quicksilver infected when bitten by a "zombified" Mystique (who at the time was impersonating his sister Wanda). This results in the rapid spread of the zombie virus, as Quicksilver is able to infect hundreds around the world in a short amount of time.Marvel Zombies Vs. The Army of Darkness #1-5 (May – September 2007). Marvel Comics. The character reappears in the limited series Marvel Zombies 3, revealed to be working for a "zombified" Wilson Fisk. Quicksilver is eventually lured into a trap by the Earth-616 Machine Man and subsequently destroyed.Marvel Zombies 3 #1-4 (December 2008 – March 2009). Marvel Comics. The zombie virus spreads to a different Quicksilver in 'Earth Z', who is featured in the limited series Marvel Zombies Return. Here, his body is capable of operating independently of the head. Marvel Zombies: Return #5. Marvel Comics.

Marvel Zombies Return
When the zombies from Earth-2149 cross over into Earth-Z, Quicksilver is transformed into a zombie, and in Marvel Zombies Return #5 is one of the few remaining zombies left who fought against Spider-Man and his New Avengers, attempting to steal a canister containing the 'cure' that Spider-Man had developed, only for the wall-crawler to accidentally pull Quicksilver's head off when trying to catch him with his webbing. He was killed by a cyborg Iron Man. Marvel Zombies Return #5 (September 2009). Marvel Comics.

Marvel 1602
Limited series Marvel 1602 depicts Quicksilver as Petros, the assistant (and secretly, son) of the High Inquisitor of the Spanish Catholic Church, Enrique.Marvel 1602 #1-8 (November 2003 – June 2004). Marvel Comics.

Ultimate Marvel
Ultimate Marvel features a version of the character warped by constant abuse from Magneto. As a teenager, he was capable of reaching speeds of Mach 10.The Ultimates #1-7 (March – September 2002); #8 (November 2002); #9 (April 2003); #10 (July 2003); #11 (September 2003); #12 (November 2003); #13 (April 2004); The Ultimates 2 #1-6 (February – July 2005); #7 (September 2005); #8 (November 2005); #9 (January 2006); #10 (March 2006); #11-12 (July – August 2006); #13 (February 2007). Marvel Comics.

After he and his sister, the Scarlet Witch, defected from their father's Brotherhood of Mutant Supremacy, they joined the Ultimates. The twin siblings also share an incestuous relationship. During the Ultimate X-Men's Magnetic North story arc, he watched over his father while he was imprisoned in the Triskelion, and threatened to kill him.Ultimate X-Men #61-65 (July – November 2005) In The Ultimates 3, he and his sister are apparently killed; however, Quicksilver later resurfaced at the end of the Absolute Power story arc, and killed Moira MacTaggert.Ultimate X-Men #100 (February 2009). Marvel Comics.

In Ultimatum #5, Quicksilver assassinated Cyclops as he is giving a speech at Washington, D.C., using the same bullet that was used to murder the Scarlet Witch.Ultimatum #5 (July 2009). Marvel Comics.

Following the deaths of major characters of the X-Men and the Brotherhood, Pietro began to search for new Brotherhood team members. Mystique, Sabretooth and Teddy (the son of Blob) joined him in Wundagore, along with an apparently reborn Wanda.Ultimate Comics: Ultimate X #5. Marvel Comics.

Following his sister's orders, Quicksilver tried to help the White House, only resulting in the death of many mutants at the hands of Nimrod Model Sentinels, which were controlled by the Reverend Stryker before his death. When Pietro arrived in Egypt, he met his father, Erik, completely alive. Ultimate Comics: X-Men #6 However, this was revealed to be an illusion from Sinister.Ultimate Comics: X-Men #13 He attempts to manipulate his younger half-brother, Jimmy Hudson, but is defeated.Ultimate Comics: Wolverine #1-4. Marvel Comics.

Later, he helps Reed Richards assemble some of the Infinity Gems and joins his team of Dark Ultimates.Ultimate Comics: Ultimates #25 Quicksilver is fatally wounded after he turns against Richards and Kang, and chooses to die by Wanda's graveside.Ultimate Comics: Ultimates #29. Marvel Comics.

Pietro later appeared to have been somehow brought back to life. He witnessed an instance of the cosmic phenomenon known as an incursion, the one which caused a collision between the planet Earth of his universe and that of an alternate reality, Earth-616, that resulted in the destruction of both universes.

When the Multiverse was eventually rebuilt, Quicksilver and the other foreign mutants, namely Jimmy, Nomi Blume aka Mach Two, Derek Morgan aka Guardian and Hisako Ichiki aka Armor, were abducted by super-villain geneticist Miss Sinister, who brainwashed and turned them into her personal enforcers, the New Marauders. When Jimmy's natural resistance to telepathy allowed him to break free from Miss Sinister's control and he went rogue, the New Marauders were deployed to retrieve him. In the process, they confronted the Time-Displaced Original X-Men, who had tracked down Jimmy after he was detected by Cerebro.X-Men: Blue #4. Marvel Comics. Following a brief confrontation against the X-Men and Jimmy, during which Marvel Girl learned of Miss Sinister's involvement, the New Marauders were ordered by their superior to leave.X-Men: Blue #5. Marvel Comics.

What If?
Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch appear in the What If? story "What If the X-Men Died on their First Mission?" as allies of Beast following the demise of the X-Men and upon the menace by Count Nefaria and his Ani-Men. Although invited to join the newly formed team upon the success of their mission, both decline in favor of their current commitments, although they promise their aid if they are needed.What If vol. 2 #9 (1990). Marvel Comics.

X-Men Noir
In the one-shot X-Men Noir, Peter Magnus is a former college track star, and works in the Homicide Department of the NYPD with his father: Eric Magnus, Chief Detective and the leader of The Brotherhood.X-Men Noir #1 (December 2008). Marvel Comics.

In other media
Television
 Quicksilver appeared in the "Captain America" segment of The Marvel Super Heroes, voiced by Len Carlson.Episode 8: "The Coming of the Swordsman/Vengeance Is Ours/Emissary of Destruction" This version is a member of the Avengers.
 Quicksilver appears in X-Men: The Animated Series, voiced by Adrian Egan and Paul Haddad.
 A teenage version of Quicksilver appears in X-Men: Evolution, voiced by Richard Ian Cox. This version is a member of the Brotherhood of Bayville. In a vision of the future depicted in the two-part series finale "Ascension", Quicksilver and the Brotherhood have joined S.H.I.E.L.D.
 Quicksilver appears in Wolverine and the X-Men, voiced by Mark Hildreth. This version is the leader of the Brotherhood of Mutants.
 Quicksilver appears in The Super Hero Squad Show episode "Hexed, Vexed, and Perplexed", voiced by Scott Menville. Raised by Magneto to be villains, Quicksilver and his sister Scarlet Witch turn on their father after Falcon offers them his friendship.  
 Evan Peters appears as an imposter of Pietro Maximoff named Ralph Bohner in the Marvel Cinematic Universe miniseries WandaVision (2021). Bohner is a Westview, New Jersey resident who was placed under mind control by Agatha Harkness and forced to impersonate Pietro to find out how and why Wanda Maximoff put Westview under a hex before he is eventually freed by Monica Rambeau. Pietro himself appears as a child in flashbacks, portrayed by Gabriel Gurevich.

Film

Marvel licensed the filming rights of the X-Men and related concepts, such as mutants, to 20th Century Fox, who created a film series based on the franchise. Years later, Marvel started their own film franchise, the Marvel Cinematic Universe, which focused on characters that they had not licensed to other studios, such as the Avengers. Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch were part of a dispute between the two studios. Fox would claim the rights over them because they were both mutants and children of Magneto, the villain of most of their films, while Marvel would also claim those rights because the editorial history of the characters in comic books is more associated with the Avengers rather than the X-Men. The studios came to an agreement that allowed both to use the characters, with the condition that they could not make reference to the other studio's properties. The Fox films could not mention them as members of the Avengers while the Marvel films could not mention them as mutants or children of Magneto. The arrangement became moot following the acquisition of 21st Century Fox by Disney - the parent company of Marvel Studios, and the confirmation that future X-Men films will take place within the Marvel Cinematic Universe.

A variation of Quicksilver appears in Fox's live-action films X-Men: Days of Future Past (2014), X-Men: Apocalypse (2016), and Dark Phoenix (2019), portrayed by Evan Peters. In Days of Future Past, Quicksilver is depicted as an American teenager named "Peter Maximoff" and an acquaintance of Logan's in the future. Peter is enlisted by Wolverine, Charles Xavier and Beast to break Magneto out of prison. Director Bryan Singer shot all of Quicksilver's scenes in 3,600 frames per second to demonstrate his super-speed."1977 World Record Scandal". X-Men: 25 Moments. Retrieved December 31, 2014. Returning in X-Men: Apocalypse, Quicksilver takes on a much larger role, rescuing almost the entire student body of the Xavier School single-handedly from an explosion inadvertently caused by Havok. Quicksilver goes on to participate in the final battle with Apocalypse before joining the newly reformed X-Men. He had also learned that Magneto is his father, but chooses not to tell him. Quicksilver also makes a brief cameo appearance in the live-action film Deadpool 2 (2018), along with other team members from Apocalypse.
Aaron Taylor-Johnson signed on to play Pietro Maximoff in Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), and first appeared in a mid-credits scene for Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014). In Age of Ultron, Pietro Maximoff and his sister Wanda are volunteers of Hydra, both acquiring superhuman powers after volunteering to be experimented upon. Harboring a lifelong hatred for American arms manufacturer Tony Stark, whose bombs killed their parents, they sided with Ultron against the Avengers before defecting to them later on. In the final conflict with Ultron, Pietro dies while saving Hawkeye and a small child. Despite Taylor-Johnson signing a multi-picture deal, producer Kevin Feige has stated that there are no plans for Pietro to appear in future Marvel Studios films. Following Disney's acquisition of Fox's film division, Taylor-Johnson was asked if he might return to the role, with the implication being that Evan Peters' competing version played a part in Feige's prior statement. While he expressed belief both parties were open to the possibility in the future, Taylor-Johnson reiterated that there were no immediate plans for him to reprise his role - specifically addressing speculation he would appear in Disney+'s WandaVision. Although Taylor-Johnson would not reprise his role in the series, the character would be referenced, with a younger actor portraying him as a child in flashbacks and Evan Peters portraying Ralph Bohner; an impersonator controlled by Agatha Harkness. The change of the character's appearance is explained as him being "recast" within the fictitious and eponymous sitcom.

Video games
 Quicksilver appears as a supporting character in Captain America and the Avengers.
 Quicksilver makes a cameo appearance in X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse. He and the Scarlet Witch join Magneto's Brotherhood of Mutants to keep him in check.
 Quicksilver appears as a boss in the PSP, PS2, and Wii versions of Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 2, voiced by Robert Tinkler.
 Quicksilver appears as a playable character in Marvel Super Hero Squad: The Infinity Gauntlet, voiced again by Scott Menville.
 Quicksilver appears in X-Men: Destiny, voiced by Sunil Malhotra.
 Quicksilver appears as a playable character in the Facebook game Marvel: Avengers Alliance.
 Quicksilver appears as a playable character in Marvel Super Hero Squad Online, voiced again by Scott Menville.
 Quicksilver appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel's Avengers, voiced by archive recordings of Aaron Taylor-Johnson.
 Quicksilver appears as playable in the mobile game Marvel: Future Fight."X-MEN's AGE OF APOCALYPSE Joins MARVEL FUTURE FIGHT". newsarama.com.
 Quicksilver appears as playable in Marvel Puzzle Quest.

 Collected editions 
+TitleMaterial collectedPublished dateISBNAvengers: QuicksilverQuicksilver #1-13, Heroes for Hire (vol. 1) #15-16, and Heroes for Hire/Quicksilver Annual '98March 2015Decimation: Son Of MSon of M #1-6August 2006X-Factor Vol. 5: The Only Game In TownX-Factor: The Quick and the Dead and X-Factor (vol. 3) #28-32December 2008Avengers: MythosAvengers Origins: Quicksilver & The Scarlet Witch and Mythos: Hulk, Captain America; Avengers Origins: Ant -Man & the Wasp, Luke Cage, Vision, ThorJanuary 2013 Quicksilver: No SurrenderQuicksilver: No Surrender #1-5December 2018

References

External links
 
 
 Quicksilver (1964) at Don Markstein's Toonopedia. Archived from the original on November 4, 2016

Category:Avengers (comics) characters
Category:Characters created by Jack Kirby
Category:Characters created by Stan Lee
Category:Comics characters introduced in 1964
Category:Fictional characters who can duplicate themselves
Category:Fictional characters who can manipulate sound
Category:Fictional characters who can manipulate time
Category:Fictional characters with air or wind abilities 
Category:Fictional characters with density control abilities
Category:Fictional characters with eidetic memory 
Category:Fictional immigrants to the United States
Category:Fictional Jews in comics
Category:Fictional Serbian Jews
Category:Fictional Serbian people
Category:Jewish superheroes
Category:Marvel Comics American superheroes
Category:Marvel Comics characters who can move at superhuman speeds
Category:Marvel Comics characters with accelerated healing
Category:Marvel Comics male superheroes
Category:Marvel Comics male supervillains
Category:Marvel Comics mutants
Category:Marvel Comics mutates
Category:Marvel Comics superheroes
Category:Marvel Comics supervillains
Category:Romani comics characters
Category:Superheroes who are adopted
Category:Twin characters in comics
Category:X-Factor (comics)
Category:X-Men supporting characters