Radioactive Man (real name Chen Lu) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Various other individuals in the Marvel Universe with similar powers have also used the name Radioactive Man for short periods of time.

Publication history
The Chen Lu version of Radioactive Man first appears in Journey into Mystery #93 (June 1963), and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.

The Igor Stancheck version of Radioactive Man first appears in Black Panther vol. 4 #3 (June 2005) and was created by Reginald Hudlin and John Romita Jr.

Green Death of Eurth is an imaginary creation from Avataars: Covenant of the Shield #3 (Nov 2000) created by Len Kaminski.

Warhead is another short-lived adolescent iteration from Young Allies vol. 2 #1 (Jun 2011) with Sean McKeever and David Baldeón as creators/illustrators.

The Radioactive Kid is a teenage iteration of a different character who featured in Vengeance #1 (Jul 2011) made by Nick Dragotta and Joe Casey.

Fictional character biography

Chen Lu
Chen Lu is a nuclear physicist and Communist agent in the People's Republic of China. Ordered to find a way to defeat Thor - who thwarts the Red Army's invasion of India - the character exposes himself to small doses of radiation until he is able to endure a massive barrage, becoming a living "Radioactive Man". He plans to take over the world.

Traveling to New York City, Chen battles Thor who is first defeated when Chen hypnotizes Thor into throwing the hammer away. But Donald Blake is able to recover the hammer from a river, and defeats the villain by creating a vortex, sending Chen back to China, where he apparently explodes.Journey into Mystery #93 (June 1963).

Radioactive Man becomes a recurring foe of the Avengers, being coerced by Baron Zemo to join the original Masters of Evil in a bid to destroy the Avengers. He is the first to confront the Avengers, and sticks Captain America and Giant-Man to the pavement with an adhesive, which Thor dodges. He is defeated by Giant-Man and Iron Man when they imprison him in lead coils. He is then deported back to China.The Avengers #6 (July 1964) The character reappears with the new Masters of Evil, organized by the robot Ultron. The villains, however, are betrayed by the Black Knight.The Avengers #54-55 (July-Aug. 1968) Radioactive Man and his teammates appear once again during a Halloween parade and are defeated by a coalition of superheroines called the Lady Liberators.The Avengers #83 (Dec. 1970)

Chen escapes and travels to Vietnam, where he joins Soviet villains Titanium Man and Crimson Dynamo as part of a team called the Titanic Three. Acting as crime fighters in Vietnam, the trio is duped by a con man and petty thief called the Slasher and end up battling the Avengers until the deception is uncovered.The Avengers #130 (Dec. 1974) After an encounter with Iron Man,Iron Man #73-74 (Mar & May 1975) the characters go their separate ways. After a humiliating defeat by time-traveling villain Kang the Conqueror in Giant-Size Avengers,Giant-Size Avengers #4 (June 1975) Chen joins another incarnation of the Masters of Evil - led by Egghead - but is defeated by Ant-Man and deported back to China.The Avengers #228-230 (Feb.-Apr. 1983)

Radioactive Man continued to feature in Iron Man, and is employed by Iron Man's arch-enemy Mandarin.Iron Man #179-181 (Feb.-Apr. 1984) Chen is employed in his civilian capacity as a physicist by Stane International (taken over by Obadiah Stane).Iron Man #234 (Sep. 1988) Radioactive Man appears in the graphic novel Deathtrap: The Vault, among other supervillains attempting to escape from the Vault. Chen, however, aids the heroes in preventing a nuclear reactor meltdown.Deathtrap: The Vault (1991) Radioactive Man also features in an issue of The Sensational She-HulkThe Sensational She-Hulk #24 (Feb. 1991) and once again in The Avengers.The Avengers #400 (July 1996)

After appearing in the second volume of Avengers that takes place in an alternate universeThe Avengers vol. 2 #8-9 (June–July 1997) and briefly in Thunderbolts,Thunderbolts #9 (Dec. 1997) the one-shot Heroes Reborn: Masters of Evil,Heroes Reborn: Masters of Evil #1 (Feb. 1999) the third volume of the Avengers,The Avengers vol. 3 #0 (July 1999) and alternate universe title Exiles,Exiles #42 (May 2004) Radioactive Man features in the limited series Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes.Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes #3 (Feb. 2005)

Chen attempts to reform and in New Thunderbolts joins the Thunderbolts, a team composed almost entirely of reformed supervillains.New Thunderbolts vol. 2 #1 (Jan. 2005) During the Civil War storyline, the character aids heroes Mister Fantastic and Yellowjacket in building a holding prison for dissenting superpowered beings, and also battles the anti-registration heroes.Civil War #1-7 (July 2006-Jan. 2007) A major development occurs in the title Thunderbolts when the group encounters the Elders of the Universe member the Grandmaster; the Radioactive Man absorbs an excessive amount of radiation and is forced to wear a radiation suit at all times.Thunderbolts vol. 2 #106 (Nov. 2006) The radiation eventually subsides, but industrialist Norman Osborn convinces the character to retain the suit to distract the American public from his clearly Asian features and quell any lingering fears about his radioactivity.Thunderbolts vol. 2 #112 (May 2007) The Radioactive Man is featured in the one shot Thunderbolts: International Incident,Thunderbolts: International Incident (Apr. 2008) the limited series Avengers/Invaders,Avengers/Invaders #1 (July 2008) one shot King-Size Hulk,King-Size Hulk #1 (July 2008) and Thunderbolts: Reason In MadnessThunderbolts: Reason in Madness #1 (July 2008) before appearing briefly in the Secret Invasion storyline.Secret Invasion #1-8 (Apr.-Dec. 2008)

As part of the Thunderbolts, Radioactive Man fought Spider-Man and Anti-Venom during the New Ways to Die storyline; during the fight, Radioactive Man had a portion of his radiation powers drained by Anti-Venom.The Amazing Spider-Man: "New Ways to Die" #568-569 (Oct. 2008); #570-572 (Nov. 2008); #573 (Dec. 2008) He continued with the team however, going after the super-hero Moon Knight.Moon Knight vol. 4, #24-25 (Jan.-Feb. 2009) Radioactive Man was one of Songbird's strongest allies within the team, often supporting her when she fought against Osborn.

Ultimately, following the events of the Secret Invasion, Norman Osborn and Moonstone began the process of neutralizing the members of the Thunderbolts who would oppose Osborn in his plan to exploit the invasion for his own personal agenda, in order to gain more power. Osborn arranged for Chen to be deported back to China, leading to a bittersweet departure involving himself and Songbird.Thunderbolts #126 (Jan. 2009)

The Radioactive Man reappears in The Mighty Avengers as part of People's Defense Force, China's indigenous group of metahumans. The Radioactive Man demonstrates that at close proximity he can safely absorb the radiation of Inhuman Xerogen crystals and presumably safely absorb Terrigen Mist. However, the People's Defense Force is largely defeated by an invading entity known as The Unspoken, a deposed former king of the Inhumans. The Unspoken is defeated in China by the Mighty Avengers.The Mighty Avengers #27-28 (Sep.-Oct. 2009)

During the Heroic Age storyline, a young man named Warhead appeared as a member of the Bastards of Evil, claiming to be the son of Radioactive Man.Age of Heroes #2 (Oct.-2010) He has been shown to have similar powers, but killed himself in a mass explosion that killed hundreds of people.Young Allies vol. 2 #1

Radioactive Man later released a Chinese dragon made of magic in the Federal Bank Reserve. While Captain America, Iron Man, the female Thor, and Vision fought the Chinese dragon, Spider-Man, Ms. Marvel, and Nova encounter Radioactive Man. The senior Avengers managed to destroy the dragon, but upon reuniting with their wards, they learn they let Radioactive Man escape. The young heroes explain they were forced to leave Radioactive Man alone as there was a man that needed to be rescued. The senior Avengers are proud of what the young heroes did as heroes are meant to protect people first and foremost and welcomes them to the team.Free Comic Book Day 2015 Avengers

Igor Stancheck
Featured in the fourth volume of Black Panther, Igor Stancheck is a Russian mutate and is one of several mercenaries (including Rhino, Batroc, and the Vatican Black Knight), orchestrated by Klaw into invading the fictional African kingdom of Wakanda. The group makes an unsuccessful attempt to destroy the huge mound of the metal vibranium located at the heart of Black Panther's kingdom.Black Panther vol. 4 #5 He was killed in battle by Shuri using the Black Knight's Ebony Blade.Black Panther vol. 4 #6

Green Death
The character known as Green Death was a member of the Minions of Evil on Eurth.Avataars: Covenant of the Shield #3 (Nov, 2000) He aided them in their conflict with the Champions of the Realm whilst attacking Black Blade who they assumed had kidnapped Captain Avalon's son.

Radioactive Kid
A promising young supervillain who took to wearing a hazmat suit to contain his nuclear powers, the Radioactive Kid would tender is affiliation with the rejuvenated team of Young Masters after he'd murdered his own father.Vengeance #1 (Jul, 2011) He would temporarily be depowered through unknown means only to be repowered under equally mysterious circumstances when reappearing with the masters in the criminal underworld nation of Begalia in Constrictors tutelage.Avengers Undercover #6 (Jun 2014) Although taking on the Radioactive Man's surname moniker, he loathes his predecessor as a sellout and dismisses any relations to him whatsoever.

Warhead
One amongst a plethora of voluntary test subjects who had undergone advanced mental conditioning and radiological experimentation in order for better reception to assimilating the mindsets of those whom their newfound powers are based upon by the mysterious benefactor known as Superior. Neutron ray bombardment gave the youth who would come to be called Warhead powers similar to the Radioactive Man.Young Allies vol. 2 #1 (Jun, 2010) While apart of a teen villainous cabal known as the Bastards of Evil, Warhead would take to reciting Dr. Chen's nihilistic and anarchical rhetoric whilst doing a suicide run to spread their message. Detonating like a nuclear bomb in the heart of Manhattan.Young Allies vol. 2 #2 (Jul, 2010)

Powers and abilities
Chen Lu was a normal human until exposed to excessive amounts of radiation, which changed his skin coloring to an iridescent green, and allows him to manipulate radiation across the microwave spectrum. Abilities include radiation emission as heat, "hard" radiation (inflicting opponents with nausea, dizziness, and radiation poisoning), EMP emissions to deactivate machinery, hypnotic light and so much more.Iron Man Legacy #5 (Aug 2010)Journey into Mystery #93 (June 1963). He can also absorb nuclear radiation without harm and convert it to energy for personal use such as physical enhancement or to cauterize wounds,New Thunderbolts #3-4 (2005)Thunderbolts #115 (Aug. 2007) create energy constructs such as force fields or golems out of radiation wit greater physical strength & resilience than his own,Deadpool & the Mercs for Money vol. 2 #2 (Aug. 2016) convert different energies into any other radiology form along the electromagnetic spectrum.Thor: First Thunder #4 (Dec. 2010) He has shown the ability to leave behind "radiation pills", i.e. infusing a single individual with enough radiation to give him severe radiation poisoning and let the contamination spread in a large population.New Thunderbolts #9 (Aug. 2005) While it was briefly implied that his radioactive makeup along with some further enhancements of his powers had left him radioactive and unable to have contact with unshielded people, he was retconned to have always been in full control of his abilities. Even so, during his tenure in the Thunderbolts, Norman Osborn had his original costume replaced with a customized radiation suit, hiding his Asian features and quelling every lingering fear about his radioactive makeup. Chen Lu holds a Ph.D. in nuclear physics.

Igor Stancheck, Kid and Warhead have the same or at least similar powers.

Other versions

Heroes Reborn
In the Heroes Reborn universe, created by Franklin Richards, Radioactive Man appeared as a member of Loki's Masters of Evil.Avengers vol. 2 #8

MC2
Radioactive Man is still active in the MC2 reality.

House of M
The Radioactive Man makes an appearance in the House of M reality, on the team of villains  who attempted to break Baron von Strucker out of prison. They were stopped and apprehended by Captain Marvel (Carol Danvers), the Kree army, and Major Erik Josten.New Thunderbolts #11

In other media
Television
 The Chen Lu incarnation of Radioactive Man appears in the "Captain America" segment of The Marvel Super Heroes, voiced by Gillie Fenwick. This version is a member of Baron Heinrich Zemo's Masters of Evil.
 The Igor Stancheck incarnation of Radioactive Man appears in Black Panther, voiced by Rick D. Wasserman. He is sent to Wakanda by Klaw and killed in battle by Princess Shuri.
 The Chen Lu incarnation of Radioactive Man makes non-speaking appearances in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes. Introduced in the episode "Hulk Vs. The World", he is imprisoned in the Cube. In the episode "The Casket of Ancient Winters", he fights Iron Man, Thor, and Black Panther at Stark Industries for the Arc Reactor's energy before he is defeated. In the episode "Assault on 42", Lu volunteers to help the Avengers fight off Annihilus and the Annihilation Wave, though he is killed during the fight.
 The Igor Stancheck incarnation of Radioactive Man appears in the Avengers Assemble episode "Secret Avengers", voiced by Roger Craig Smith. This version is associated with the Winter Guard and sports Chen Lu's costume and design. Sometime before the episode, he was apprehended by HYDRA and placed in a radiation-proof capsule to be used as a power source. Crimson Dynamo obtains the key to the capsule so the Winter Guard can free him, but when the destabilized facility threatens a nearby village, the S.H.I.E.L.D.-affiliated Secret Avengers work with the Winter Guard to save it, leading to Crimson Dynamo and Falcon freeing Radioactive Man to dissolve the facility.

Video games
 The Chen Lu incarnation of Radioactive Man appears as a mini-boss in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, voiced by James Sie. This version is a member of Doctor Doom's Masters of Evil.
 The Chen Lu incarnation of Radioactive Man appears as a boss in the PSP, PS2, and Wii versions of Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 2, voiced by Don Luce.
 The Chen Lu incarnation of Radioactive Man appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel's Avengers.
 The Chen Lu incarnation of Radioactive Man appears in Marvel: Avengers Alliance 2.

References

External links
 Radioactive Man (Chen Lu) at Marvel.com
 Radioactive Man at Marvel Wiki
 Radioactive Man (Chen Lu) at Comic Vine
 
 Radioactive Man (Igor Stancheck) at Marvel Wiki

Category:Characters created by Jack Kirby
Category:Characters created by Stan Lee
Category:Chinese superheroes
Category:Comics characters introduced in 1963
Category:Comics characters introduced in 2005
Category:Fictional characters with absorption or parasitic abilities
Category:Fictional characters with nuclear or radiation abilities
Category:Fictional nuclear engineers
Category:Fictional nuclear physicists
Category:Fictional Russian people
Category:Marvel Comics characters with superhuman strength
Category:Marvel Comics male supervillains
Category:Marvel Comics mutates