Falcon (Samuel Thomas "Sam" Wilson) is a superhero character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character was introduced by writer-editor Stan Lee and artist Gene Colan in Captain America #117 (Sept. 1969), and was the first Black American superhero in mainstream comic books. 

Samuel Wilson, or known as his superhero alias Falcon, uses mechanical wings to fly, defend, and attack, he also has limited telepathic and empathic control over birds. After Steve Rogers retires, Wilson becomes Captain America in All-New Captain America #1 (Jan. 2015) and leader of the Avengers. Wilson's deceased nephew was the Incredible Hulk's sometime-sidekick Jim Wilson, one of the first openly HIV-positive comic-book characters. Jim Wilson's father Gideon Wilson would go on to join the Gamma Corps.

Wilson as Falcon and Captain America has made several media appearances, including in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, where the character is portrayed by Anthony Mackie in the films Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014), Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), Ant-Man (2015), Captain America: Civil War (2016), Avengers: Infinity War (2018), Avengers: Endgame (2019), the television miniseries The Falcon and the Winter Soldier (2021), and the upcoming film as Captain America in Captain America: New World Order (2024).

Publication history
Samuel Thomas Wilson, known as Falcon, was the first Black American superhero in mainstream comic books. The character first appeared in Captain America #117 (Sept. 1969).

Created by writer-editor Stan Lee and artist Gene Colan, he came about, Colan recalled in 2008,

He was introduced as an unnamed former resident of New York City's Harlem neighborhood, who had adopted a wild falcon he trained and named Redwing. His own name, Sam Wilson, was not given until the following issue. When a group of men on an island "in the tropics" wanted a hunting falcon, Wilson answered the ad, only to discover that the self-dubbed "Exiles" were former Nazis in league with the supervillain the Red Skull. He escaped, but remained on the island to organize the natives to confront the Exiles, who had turned them into serfs. At the urging of Steve Rogers, whom he later learned was Captain America, Wilson took on the costumed identity of the Falcon and underwent training with Rogers in order to better inspire the villagers and lead the fight.Captain America #117–118 (Sept.–Oct. 1969). Writer: Stan Lee. Penciler: Gene Colan. Publisher: Magazine Management Company. Brand: Marvel Comics.

Through most of the 1970s, the Falcon and Captain America were a team in New York City. The series was cover-billed Captain America and the Falcon from issues #134–192 and 194–222 (Feb. 1971–June 1978),Captain America cover scans, page 1 to page 4, at the Grand Comics Database though still copyrighted as Captain America. In issue #186 (June 1975), writer Steve Englehart retconned aspects of the Falcon's past. Originally depicted as a former social worker, motivated by a desire to better the lives of inner-city youth, the Falcon was revealed as a mob-connected thug whose memories were altered by the reality-warping Cosmic Cube.

The Falcon briefly joined the superhero team the Defenders, appearing in issues #62–64 (August–October 1978), and was a member of the Avengers from issues #183–194 (May 1979 – April 1980). During this time he also starred in a solo adventure in issue #49 of the try-out series Marvel Premiere; however, the story was not a try-out for a Falcon series, but an intended fill-in issue of Captain America which was shuffled into Marvel Premiere when the editors objected to having an issue of Captain America with someone other than the title character as the star. He starred in his own four-issue miniseries in 1983, written by Jim Owsley (later known as Christopher Priest). Its first issue was illustrated by Paul Smith with the final three issues by Mark Bright. The series revealed that the Falcon was a mutant, although this development was later retconned in The Avengers 2001 Annual.

After regularly appearing in Captain America vol. 2 (Nov. 1996–Nov. 1997), the Falcon rejoined the Avengers in The Avengers vol. 3, #1 (Feb. 1998). This time, he remained with the team, becoming one of its most prominent members by issue #57 (Oct. 2002). Concurrently, he was also a supporting character in Captain America vols. 3–4 (Jan. 1998–Feb. 2002 and June 2002–Dec. 2004). The Falcon next appeared in the short-lived Captain America and the Falcon series, in 2004 and 2005. After the events of the storyline "Avengers Disassembled", when the Scarlet Witch temporarily restored his criminal personality, the Falcon became a supporting character in Captain America vol. 5 (Jan. 2005–July 2009). The Falcon continued to play a significant role in the series after it returned to its original numbering, beginning with Captain America #600 (Aug. 2009).

Falcon was a member of the Avengers in the 2012 Marvel NOW! relaunch.

On July 16, 2014, Marvel Comics announced that Sam Wilson would relinquish the mantle of Falcon and would become the new Captain America, succeeding Steve Rogers in the role. During this run, it is established that Sam Wilsons's "Snap" backstory as a drug dealing pimp was fake memories implanted by the Red Skull to discredit Sam through racism.All-Captain America #3. Marvel Comics.

An ongoing series starring Sam Wilson as Captain America launched in October 2015, as part of Marvel's post-Secret Wars relaunch, written by Nick Spencer and Daniel Acuña.

Wilson temporarily returns to the role of Captain America in the 2017 miniseries Marvel's Generations.

Wilson resumed the identity of Falcon in a series written by Rodney Barnes that debuted in late 2017, the character's first solo series since 1983.Couto, Anthony (June 23, 2017). "Marvel Legacy: Sam Wilson Returns as The Falcon". CBR.com.Lovett, Jamie (July 5, 2017). "Marvel Legacy: Rodney Barnes To Have Falcon Wrestle With Demons In New Series". ComicBook.com.

Fictional character biography
Early life
Samuel Thomas Wilson was born in Harlem, New York City, to Paul Wilson, a prominent minister, and Darlene Wilson. Wilson had a happy childhood and finds he has a natural affinity for birds. He takes up training pigeons, and has the largest pigeon coop in Harlem.Lee, Stan Captain America #117–119 (Sept.–Nov. 1969) In his teens, however, encounters with racism leave him jaded.Englehart, Steve. Captain America #186 When he is 16, Wilson refuses to join the church, believing his deeply religious parents to be ignorant for their faith. To his surprise, rather than put up a fight, his parents provide him with books on different religions and comparative theology. The next night, however, Sam's father is killed trying to break up a neighborhood fight (originally Paul was said to have been killed when Sam was 9 years old).Captain America #277 Two years later, his mother is shot and killed by a mugger one block from their apartment.Johns, Geoff. The Avengers vol. 3 #64Priest, Christopher J. Captain America and the Falcon #7 The tragic death of his parents does not stop Sam from being a respected community volunteer.

As a grown adult, Sam continued doing social work and meets Captain America on Exile Island (years later, he would say "I actually loved this place quite a bit. It's where I met my two best friends," referring to Captain America and Redwing).Priest, Christopher J. Captain America and the Falcon, #11 The once-peaceful island had been taken over by the Exiles, a group of would-be world conquerors who had collaborated with the Nazi supervillain the Red Skull during World War II. They had been betrayed by the Red Skull and were forced to remain in hiding on the island, enslaving the natives. Wilson finds and befriends Redwing, a falcon with which he feels a remarkably strong bond.Captain America #186

Becoming the Falcon
Wilson is an upright and cheerful social worker who is eventually lured to the Exiles' island and organizes the natives to fight for their freedom. Steve Rogers (Captain America) befriends him there and convinces Wilson to adopt a persona to inspire the natives in their rebellion. The two create the costumed persona the Falcon and train together extensively before attacking and defeating the Exiles and the Red Skull. The Falcon becomes Captain America's regular partner in crime-fighting,Captain America #133 and briefly even takes on the Captain America costume and identity when Rogers is believed to have been killed.Captain America: Sentinel of Liberty #8–9 (April–May 1999)

Later, again as the Falcon, Wilson receives help from the Black Panther, who creates a harness for Wilson, allowing him to fly.Englehart, Steve, and Mike Friedrich. Captain America #170 (Feb. 1974) When Rogers briefly abandons his Captain America identity, others attempt to take up the mantle, including a young man named Roscoe whom the Falcon mentors. When the Red Skull eventually kills Roscoe, Rogers again becomes Captain America.Englehart, Steve. Captain America #181–183 (Jan.–March 1975)

Soon afterwards, the Red Skull tricks Sam into believing that he had a secret past as Snap Wilson, a professional Los Angeles criminal and gang member persona created out of grief and "angry at the world" following the death of Sam's parents. Red Skull makes the untruthful claim that the Cosmic Cube was used to erase the memories of this Snap Wilson past so that Sam could be used as a mole for Red Skull. Red Skull then unsuccessfully attempts to use the Cosmic Cube to make the Falcon kill Captain America.Englehart, Steve, and John Warner. Captain America #186 (June 1975) Believing in the existence of this fake criminal past but deciding to continue as a hero, the Falcon is eventually named head of the Super Agents at the espionage agency S.H.I.E.L.D.Glut, Donald F. Captain America #218 (Feb. 1978)

US government superhero liaison Henry Peter Gyrich then recruits Wilson, one of the few active black superheroes, to fill a mandated racial quota for the venerable team the Avengers.The Avengers #184 (June 1979) Resentful of being a "token", the Falcon quits at the first opportunity. He debuts a new costume when he fights the supervillain Taskmaster.Captain America Annual #11

2000s
Falcon becomes a member of the new team of Avengers assembled to fight the international menace Scorpio as a United Nations peacekeeping agency. By this point, Falcon had discovered that he could extend his telepathic bond with Redwing, allowing him to control other birds and "see" through their eyes. He uses this ability to spy on Henry Gyrich (now the Avengers' liaison with the United Nations) and discovers that the United States' Secretary of Defense, Dell Rusk, has been pressuring Gyrich to spy on the Avengers and turn over their secrets. Although initially hostile to one another, Falcon convinces Gyrich to help the Avengers spy on Rusk, feeding him false information while gathering evidence to expose him. They discover that Rusk is actually the Red Skull, who has launched a biological weapon attack on the United States, intending to use the ensuing panic to gain control over America's government and start a war with other countries. Falcon is instrumental in defeating the Red Skull.Johns, Geoff. The Avengers vol. 3 #57–70

It is around this period of time that, a new "Captain America" secretly created by the Office of Naval Intelligence (O.N.I.) goes rogue and begins eliminating anything and anyone he sees as a source of terrorism. To draw out this agent (dubbed "The Anti-Cap"), O.N.I. leaks information about their involvement in a biological weapons project with the notorious Rivas Family, powerful Cuban drug lords. Reporter and social activist Leila Taylor investigates this rumor and attempts to smuggle a sample of the virus into America, but she is arrested by U.S. forces in Cuba. Falcon, who is a friend of Taylor, breaks her out of prison and investigates her claims, destroying the Rivas Family's biological weapons lab and obtaining a sample of the mysterious virus they were developing for O.N.I. Falcon is able to fly Leila back to America (although his flying harness is destroyed in a hurricane) while Captain America follows Falcon's directions and retrieves the virus sample. The Anti-Cap kills the head of the Rivas family, and pursues Leila, Falcon, and Cap, intent on obtaining the virus sample. After reuniting, Falcon and Captain America are able to barely defeat the Anti-Cap. Realizing that O.N.I.'s goal was to draw out their rogue agent to execute him, Captain America arranges to have the Anti-Cap secretly imprisoned in the Wakandan embassy until O.N.I. agrees not to kill him.Priest, Christopher J. Captain America and the Falcon #1–4, (May–July 2004)

Since Captain America and Falcon now possess both O.N.I.'s rogue agent and the last remaining sample of O.N.I.'s virus, O.N.I. begins to put increasing amounts of pressure on the heroes. Falcon is especially targeted – he had broken Leila out of Federal Custody, and his alleged criminal history makes it easier for O.N.I. to create further false charges against him. Falcon soon finds himself on the run from O.N.I.

Meanwhile, the superheroine the Scarlet Witch, having gone insane, begins using her powers to re-create many of the Avengers' greatest trials and tragedies. She destabilizes the Falcon's mind, causing him to act increasingly like the "Snap Wilson" persona. He begins carrying a gun, keeps secrets from his friends, assaults Leila's boyfriend Norman when he protests they go into hiding, and uses a high power rifle to shoot at his friend Robbie Robertson (to fool Robbie into thinking O.N.I. was threatening to kill him). Although they succeed in exposing the illegal activities of O.N.I. and clear Wilson's name, Sam's methods cause his relationship with Captain America to become strained. Cap confronts Falcon about his recent actions, and Falcon, angered at what he sees as an ultimatum, terminates their partnership. As they are walking away, Norman (who blames Falcon for the end of his relationship with Leila) appears and shoots at Falcon. Captain America is seriously injured by the stray bullets, and even appears to die. The shock of watching his best friend seemingly die because of his actions has a powerful effect on Sam, who briefly gives up being Falcon and reexamines his life.Priest, Christopher J. Captain America and the Falcon. #1–14

Sam Wilson reappears as Falcon in the 2005 "House of M" storyline and in the 2006–07 "Civil War" storyline.House of M #1, Captain America vol. 5 #12, Civil War #1 In the latter, he supports Captain America against the Superhuman Registration Act. When the Captain becomes incapacitated, Falcon temporarily assumes leadership of the "Secret Avengers" rebel group.Civil War #4 Following Captain America's assassination by the machinations of the Red Skull, the Falcon registers with the government and is made responsible for Harlem, although he continues to maintain contact with the underground The New Avengers. He is also called upon to investigate the Captain's assassination by locating Winter Soldier and tracking down the Red Skull.Captain America vol. 5 #31–33 (Dec. 2007–Feb. 2008), Marvel Comics.

Becoming Captain America
thumb|upright|Wilson as Captain America on the cover of All-New Captain America #1 (November 2014). Art by Stuart Immonen.
Wilson appears in the 2010 "Shadowland" storyline as Falcon, after which he becomes an operative in the new incarnation of the Heroes for Hire team, in the book of the same name.Heroes for Hire vol. 4 #1. Marvel Comics. He later appears in the 2012 "Avengers vs. X-Men" storyline, helping She-Hulk and several other Avengers contain the students at the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning.X-Men Legacy #266. Marvel Comics.

As part of the 2012-2015 Marvel NOW! relaunch, Wilson rejoins the Avengers after Iron Man and Captain America choose to expand the team's line-up.Avengers vol. 5 #1. Marvel Comics. After Rogers is aged into an old man, he appoints Wilson as his 'official' replacement as Captain America.Captain America vol. 7 #25. Marvel Comics. During a confrontation with the Red Skull's daughter Sin, it is revealed that the "Snap" identity was a fake memory implanted into Sam by the Red Skull in an attempt to discredit the hero through racism.

As part of the 2015 All-New, All-Different Marvel initiative, Captain America investigated the disappearance of Mexican teenager Joaquin Torres after he was abducted by the Sons of the Serpent.Captain America: Sam Wilson #1. Marvel Comics. After fighting Armadillo and capturing the leader of the hate group,Captain America: Sam Wilson #2. Marvel Comics. Captain America discovered that Joaquin was being used in the experiments of Karl Malus who turned Joaquin into a bird/human hybrid using Captain America's pet bird Redwing. When Karl Malus was defeated, Captain America took Joaquin in.Captain America: Sam Wilson #3. Marvel Comics. When it was discovered Joaquin's bird/human hybrid condition wasn't temporary, Captain America learned from Claire Temple that Joaquin's condition was permanent due to Redwing being vampiric and sporting a healing factor.Captain America: Sam Wilson #4. Marvel Comics. When Captain America was captured by the Serpent Society and thrown out the window by Viper, he was saved by Joaquin.Captain America: Sam Wilson #5. Marvel Comics. Using his link with Redwing, Captain America telepathically sent Joaquin the knowledge on how to fight where he held his own until Misty Knight and Demolition Man showed up. After the Serpent Society was defeated, Captain America allowed Joaquin to become his sidekick, enabling him to become the new Falcon.Captain America: Sam Wilson #6. Marvel Comics.

During the 2016 "Avengers: Standoff!" storyline, Sam, after defeating the Green Skull, is contacted by Whisperer (an alias of Rick Jones). After meeting Whisperer, he learns that S.H.I.E.L.D. never discarded the Kobik project as he thought they did. He meets with Steve Rogers, where they follow a lead to a town in Connecticut and are later picked up by S.H.I.E.L.D. agents.Avengers Standoff: Assault on Pleasant Hill Alpha! #1 He then meets the Winter Soldier and rescue S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Avril Kincaid from the Blood Brothers, who informs them of a super-weapon hidden in the town that Baron Zemo and the other villains are looking for. They then head to the bowling alley where Kobik uses her powers to restore Steve Rogers to his prime when he was about to be killed by Crossbones. They begin looking for Kobik again only to discover that Baron Zemo had Fixer invent a device that would help find Kobik as Kraven the Hunter rallies the villains to help with their goals. Upon not being able to successfully locate Kobik, Steve Rogers decides to rally the heroes so that they can take the fight to Baron Zemo.Captain America: Sam Wilson #7-8. Marvel Comics. In the aftermath of the incident, Steve and Sam plan to keep what happened at Pleasant Hill under wraps at the time being.Avengers Standoff: Assault on Pleasant Hill Omega #1. Marvel Comics.

After the "Standoff!" storyline, Sam begins to face public pressure to return the shield and mantle of Captain America to Steve, as does Maria Hill for the consequences of her actions on Pleasant Hill. He and Steve then begin to secretly plan for a way to get Hill to face her crimes publicly. During a press conference, Sam encounters the mercenary Chance who was about to kill Steve in the middle of his speech. After defeating him, Sam receives a hero's welcome when Steve announces him to the public as Captain America. While getting arrested, Chance tells Sam that he was on Pleasant Hill and that he didn't agree with the heroes' actions.Captain America: Sam Wilson #9. Marvel Comics.

During the 2016 "Civil War II" storyline, Captain America attends War Machine's funeral, where he delivers an inspirational speech. He then has private conversations with Iron Man and Captain Marvel, over which side he should choose. Months later, Wilson watches a TV broadcast about former New Warrior Rage engaging in a fight with the Americops, a private police force funded by Keane Industries, in Brooklyn. Intending to stop the fight, Wilson, along with Redwing and Falcon, try to contain the situation. Sam manages to stop the fight, although not without fighting the Americops, for which he knew the media would portray him negatively. As he leaves, he is attacked from behind by U.S. Agent. After a brief argument, Captain America and U.S. Agent begin to fight, with U.S. Agent gaining the upper hand, until Sam drags him into a tunnel where the darkness and the great horned owls that reside in it allow him to win the fight. After defeating U.S. Agent and receiving an argument from Rage, Wilson returns to his headquarters where he decides to put a tiny implant in his brain that will enhance his ability to see what birds see, enabling him to transmit them into a data storage facility that converts them into images and videos. He decides to further investigate the Americops to find proof of their violent activities.Captain America: Sam Wilson #10-13. Marvel Comics.

While accompanying Steve Rogers on a mission to stop Flag-Smasher from leaking America's nuclear launch codes, Wilson fails to save a senator from being shot by the villain, further compromising his current public image. This is subsequently revealed to have been deliberately staged by Rogers who has been converted to believe he is a Hydra sleeper agent since childhood. Using his greater familiarity with the shield, Rogers deliberately put Wilson in a position where he would be unable to use the shield to save the senator, with the final goal of demoralizing Sam to the point where he will return the shield to Rogers of his own free will (not wanting to kill Wilson and risk creating a martyr).Captain America: Sam Wilson #14. Marvel Comics.

After discovering that Rage was arrested and accused of robbing a pawn shop which Man Mountain Marko and Speed Demon committed, Sam offers him professional help from other heroes, but Rage turns it down, preferring that he should be the one to prove his innocence. After consulting with his brother and Rogers, Sam posts a video on the internet showing footage of the Americops beating up Rage, exposing their violent activities. During Rage's trial, a frustrated Sam leaves the courtroom and captures Speed Demon, who confesses to his and Man Mountain Marko's involvement in the pawn shop robbery. Upon returning to the court, Misty tells Sam that the verdict was already given. While people protest over Rage's arrest, Sam tries his best to calm them. Sam leaves a letter which explains he is ending his role as Captain America and returning the shield to Steve RogersCaptain America: Sam Wilson #18-21. Marvel Comics.

During the 2017 "Secret Empire" storyline, Sam has spent time alone in a desert and returns to the city where he discovers Hydra's takeover of America and that Steve Rogers is their leader. Sam rescues a woman and her Inhuman daughter from Hydra enforcers, Sam reluctantly helps them to safety. He reunites with Misty Knight and Demolition Man and helps smuggle other Inhumans out of the country. He helps Ant-Man smuggle his daughter Cassandra Lang then declines their offer to join the underground resistance.Captain America: Sam Wilson #22 When Hawkeye and the Tony Stark A.I. reveal that Kobik was responsible for Steve's change, Sam agrees to help smuggle them out of the country so they can find the Cosmic Cube's fragments.Secret Empire #3 Sam takes the group through an abandoned subway tunnel where they encounter Mole Man, with whom Sam strikes a deal when they are attacked by Dreadnoughts sent by Hydra. After crossing the tunnel, the group departs in a jet plane.Captain America: Sam Wilson #23 They arrive in a mansion where Ultron resides, since he is in possession of the shard. They encounter Steve Rogers and his Avengers until Ultron captures them. After a brief battle, Ultron allows them to leave and gives the shard to Tony's team. Steve muses that he is unconcerned about who will acquire the fragments as he has an inside man in the Tony Stark A.I.'s team.Secret Empire #4

After a series of dead ends, the team returns to the hideout, where Sam reunites with Misty, until Hydra forces arrive and begin their assault on the base. During the battle, Sam helps the other heroes in protecting the refugees and battling Hydra's Avengers and a revived Bruce Banner as the Hulk until the base explodes.Secret Empire #5-6 In the aftermath of the attack, Sam appears standing on top of the rubble as Captain America to inspire America's superheroes to not surrender.Secret Empire #7 It is later revealed that Sam had a conversation with Misty Knight and Rayshaun Lucas, the new Patriot, which has persuaded him to reassume the role of Captain America, leading the resistance and wielding Rogers' original round shield as a symbol of hope.Captain America: Sam Wilson #24 Sam uses the Cosmic Cube fragment acquired by the resistance to help destroy the Darkforce dome surrounding Manhattan and the planetary defense shield, releasing all the trapped heroes. Liberating all the imprisoned Inhumans, the Underground attacks the Capitol which attracts the attention of Steve Rogers, who arrives wearing Cosmic Cube-powered armor. During the final battle, Sam fakes surrender and gives the fragment to Steve, only for Winter Soldier to intervene and bring Kobik and the real Steve Rogers back. The restored Steve Rogers manages to defeat the Hydra Steve Rogers with Thor's hammer and Kobik restores reality back to normal.Secret Empire #8-10

Return as Falcon
Upon taking the second Patriot on as his sidekick, they travel to Chicago to deal with an outbreak of gang violence, unaware that Blackheart is posing as the city's Mayor.Barnes, Rodney; Thompson, Robbie (w), Cassara, Joshua; Bagley, Mark (p), Hennessy, Andrew (i). (Anthology), Falcon vol. 2 #1 (Dec. 2017). Marvel Comics.

Powers, abilities, and equipment
Powers
In his earliest appearances, Wilson exhibits a close bond with his bird Redwing, which is confirmed as being a telepathic link by Professor X in Captain America #174. The Red Skull later claims that he had used the Cosmic Cube to create a "super-normal mental link" between Sam Wilson and Redwing.Englehart, Steve. Captain America #186. Marvel Comics, 1975 Falcon later recalled memories of such an experience, stating he "Hurt like hell. Being mentally fused with that falcon. Able to see through his eyes".Johns, Geoff. The Avengers vol. 3 #60. Marvel Comics, 2003

Wilson eventually revealed that he has been able to extend this empathic link. "I'm always psychically connected with Redwing, but through concentration, i've recently tapped into another ability - i'm able to link-up with other birds. I have over six billion pairs of eyes in the United States alone". He used this ability to quickly search New York City when the criminal Scarecrow kidnapped two children,Johns, Geoff. The Avengers vol. 3 #64. Marvel Comics, 2003 as well as to spy on Senator Dell Rusk (actually the Red Skull in disguise) and Henry Peter Gyrich.Johns, Geoff. The Avengers vol. 3 #61–69. Marvel Comics, 2003–2004 He is also apparently able to access the memories of birds, and see things they had witnessed in the past (although birds have a different concept of the passage of time, which makes it difficult for him to know when any events they witnessed occurred).Brubaker, Ed. Captain America vol. 5 #35. Marvel Comics, 2008

Abilities
Wilson is a skilled hand-to-hand combatant, having been trained in JudoCaptain America and the Falcon #163 (July 1973) and KarateCaptain America #118 (Oct. 1969) by Steve Rogers. Wilson is also highly skilled in the use of Captain America's shield.

Uniform and flight harness
Wilson's original Falcon wing harness featured detachable jet-powered glider wings made of lightweight titanium ribbing and Mylar. The wings were covered with wafer-thin solar power receptors that convert sunlight into electricity to power miniature high-speed electric turbine fans in his uniform and boots. The wings detached and reattached to his uniform cybernetically. The harness was destroyed in Captain America and the Falcon #2 (2004). The uniform was made of synthetic stretch fabric lined with a steel-alloy mesh.

After the original flying harness's destruction in a 2004 storyline,Priest, Christopher (w). Captain America and the Falcon #2 (2004). Marvel Comics the Black Panther supplied Falcon with a new costume and wings. An emitter array on Falcon's back creates holographic "hard light" wings with a maximum wingspan of up to . Controlled by a cybernetic link, the wings can be instantly reconfigured into "dozens of different cruise configurations". A "magnetic drive", in turn, provides the thrust needed to get Falcon airborne. The emitter also possesses GPS jamming devices that prevent satellite tracking, while the hard-light wings interfere with infra-red tracking. A vibranium microweave was added to the costume itself, making Falcon resistant to small arms fire.Priest, Christopher Captain America and the Falcon #6, Marvel Comics (2004) The entire system is controlled mentally through cybernetic circuitry in the Falcon's mask. The costume has in the past featured a hidden "talon", a cybernetically controlled grappling line built into the gauntlets of his costume which he uses to entangle opponents, hook objects or for swinging and climbing when his wings are detached. The costume's visors come equipped with various capabilities, including infrared lenses, giving him the ability to see objects by their infrared signature at night, magnification capabilities, and remote imaging sensors that allow a full 360 degree of vision when activated. The cowl also has a wideband receiver and transmitter with an unspecified range. The suit was originally built by the Black Panther,Captain America #170 (Feb. 1974). Marvel Comics with costume modifications by Desmond Burrell.

Other characters named Falcon
Joaquin Torres
As part of the 2015 All-New, All-Different Marvel branding, Captain America (Sam Wilson) investigated the disappearance of Mexican teenager Joaquin Torres after he was abducted by the Sons of the Serpent. Captain America discovered that Joaquin was being used in the experiments of Karl Malus who turned Joaquin into a bird/human hybrid using Captain America's pet bird Redwing. When Karl Malus was defeated, Captain America took Joaquin in. When it was discovered Joaquin's bird/human hybrid condition wasn't temporary, Captain America learned from Claire Temple that Joaquin's condition was permanent due to Redwing being vampiric and sporting a healing factor. When Captain America was captured by the Serpent Society and thrown out the window by Viper, he was saved by Joaquin. Using his link with Redwing, Captain America telepathically sent Joaquin the knowledge on how to fight where he held his own until Misty Knight and Demolition Man showed up. After the Serpent Society was defeated, Captain America allowed Joaquin to become his sidekick, enabling him to become the new Falcon.

During the "Secret Empire" storyline, Falcon II and Ironheart join the Champions when they join up with the Underground.Secret Empire #1. Marvel Comics.

Adrian Toomes

In a 2017 storyline, Adrian Toomes developed a modified version of his electromagnetic wing harness with a reinforced helmet and lightweight, razor-sharp, nano-woven wings that responded to his mental commands. He temporarily took the name Falcon, believing it was vacant at the time, and robbed a location in East Village. He fought Spider-Man until they were both immobilized by a new Trapster, who made off with Toomes' loot.Free Comic Book Day Vol 2017 Secret Empire. Marvel Comics.

Carl Burgess
A similar, unrelated character of the same name and powers was created in 1939 by writer-artist Bill Everett for Marvel Comics' predecessor company, Timely Comics.

Other versions
 In an alternate reality of a 1983 What If? story, Sam - under his gang name "Snap" - is a member of a secret rebellion force in the United States turned fascist who aids Captain America in beating an impostor and leading the chastised nation back to its democratic roots.
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears as one of the zombified heroes in the Marvel Zombies universe. Initially, he is among the many heroes summoned by Nick Fury to fight off the infection, but he winds up being infected. Afterwards, in Marvel Zombies 3, he, along with other wing-laden characters (Angel, Beak and Vulture), attack Machine Man, Ultron and Jocasta as soon as they arrive in this ravaged universe, but he and the others are quickly killed by Machine Man.Marvel Comics 3 #3. Marvel Comics.
 In Amazing Spider-Girl #7, which is part of the MC2 universe, Wilson was revealed to be dead. However, the Ladyhawk twins wear attire similar to his first costume, from before he had the mantle of either Falcon or Captain America.
 In the "Once and Future King" story arc from Black Panther, a retired Sam Wilson is shown as the mayor of New York City 25 years into the future. He comes out of retirement for one final mission to help Black Panther defeat T'charra, T'Chaka's treasonous son.Black Panther vol. 2 #37. Marvel Comics.
thumb|upright|The Ultimate Marvel version of Falcon on the cover of Ultimate Comics: The Ultimates #7 (April 2012). Art by Kaare Andrews.
 In the Ultimate Marvel universe, Samuel Wilson is an explorer, adventurer, and S.H.I.E.L.D. scientist who uses a backpack with high-tech folding wings to fly as the Falcon. Dr. Wilson first appeared in Ultimate Nightmare and then worked on the Vision, demonstrating a high level of technological understanding and confronted George Tarleton of A.I.M. aboard a space station studying a Gah Lak Tus module.Ultimate Nightmare #1–5. Marvel Comics. He is an agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. rather than an official member of the Ultimates or Reserves, but later joins the Future Foundation when Galactus invades. Cataclysm: The Ultimates' Last Stand #2 He has served with or under General Nick Fury, and was a member of the armed forces but retired to pursue scientific interests. This version appears to be an accomplished combatant, especially when using the sharp edge of the metal wings he wears as a weapon, which are controlled through the help of nanotechnology, with which Wilson can communicate and retrieve computer information. The wings are partially self-repairing, as referenced in Ultimate Extinction.Ultimate Extinction #1–5. Marvel Comics.
 In Marvel's MAX imprint series U.S. War Machine, Wilson appeared alongside Captain America and Hawkeye; he and Hawkeye served as Captain America's backup and wore no costumes, only being addressed by their real names. In this reality, Captain America was actually Bucky wearing the Captain's uniform as here the Captain had died in World War II in his stead.
 In a 2006 comic What If Captain America had fought in the Civil War?, the Earth-717 version of Wilson was an orphan raised by a Shawnee medicine man, and grew up to fight in the American Civil War as part of an Indian volunteer regiment. He performs a ritual to give Steven Rogers the power of We-Pi-Ahk, the Eagle Spirit, and has a red eagle painted on his chest for this ceremony. He is killed by Colonel Barnes (who in this reality is the White Skull).
 In the 1996 "Heroes Reborn" universe, created by Franklin Richards, a version of Samuel Wilson appears. His father, Abraham "Abe" Wilson fought alongside Captain America during World War II, but was later killed by Master Man's army.Captain America vol. 2 #1 During the fight, Abe's son Sam Wilson is shot in a fight and gravely wounded, but Captain America saves his life by giving him a transfusion of the Super-Soldier's own blood. Consequently, Wilson gains superhuman abilities comparable to those of Captain America. His military nickname, "The Falcon", becomes his superhero code name. He avenges his father by beating Master Man, and along with Captain America and Nick Fury, defeats the Red Skull's plans for world domination.Captain America vol. 2 #1–12. Marvel Comics.
 In an alternate timeline seen in Avengers: The Children's Crusade, Sam was succeeded as the Falcon by his daughter Samantha. Samantha is shown as a member of the Avengers alongside her husband Eli (the new Captain America), and their son Steve (the new Bucky).Avengers: The Children's Crusade: Young Avengers #1. Marvel Comics.
 In Daredevil: End of Days, Wilson is briefly shown as the future president of the United States of America.Daredevil: End of Days #2
 During the Secret Wars storyline, an alternate, naturally-winged version of Sam Wilson is a member of the Thor Corps (which are the police force of Battleworld). He and the Thor Corps members arrest Miss America after she violates Doom's laws by throwing a megalodon that attacked Arcadia far enough to go over the Shield and end up in the Deadlands.A-Force #1
 A female version of Sam Wilson (Samantha T. Wilson) serves as the original Captain America of the Spider-Gwen universe of Earth-65. When World War II struck, she became one of the first black female pilots in the U.S. military. Eventually, she was recruited into Project Rebirth, and was chosen to undergo the procedure when the other candidates Bucky, Steve Rogers, and Isaiah Bradley were badly injured by Nazi agents. After this, she became Captain America, and fought the Nazis. When the Nazis attempted to summon creatures from another dimension, she entered said dimension to hold off the invading forces, un-aging in this reality for nearly 75 years. When she finally defeated them and returned to her home dimension of Earth-65, she was recruited by S.H.I.E.L.D. director Peggy Carter to continue her service as Captain America as one of her agents.Spider-Gwen vol. 2 #2. Marvel Comics.
 Another version of Sam Wilson appears in the Spider-Gwen universe of Earth-65. He is the male clone of Samantha Wilson and is also this universe's Falcon where he works as Captain America's sidekick. Falcon is known as Sam 13 and is an expert sniper-assassin. He is aided by Redwing (who in this reality is a robotic falcon) where Sam 13 used him for assault and reconnaissance. Falcon and Redwing first come into contact with Spider-Woman while she was fighting Lizard.
 In an alternate reality depicted in the 2021 "Heroes Reborn" miniseries, Falcon was the sidekick of Nighthawk before he was killed by the Goblin. Sam was later succeeded by Miles Morales.Heroes Reborn: Young Squadron #1. Marvel Comics.

In other media
Television
 Sam Wilson / Falcon and Redwing appear in The Avengers: United They Stand, voiced by Martin Roach. They appear as members of the Avengers.
 Sam Wilson / Falcon and Redwing appear in The Super Hero Squad Show, voiced by Alimi Ballard and Steve Blum respectively. They appear as members of the titular squad and the series' version of the former is capable of launching his "feathers" at his enemies.
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes, voiced by Lance Reddick. This version is an enthralled servant of Dell Rusk and appears in the episodes "Nightmare in Red", "Code Red", and "Avengers Assemble!".
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears in the Avengers Assemble animated series, voiced by Bumper Robinson.Sands, Rich (June 12, 2012). "Exclusive: Marvel Assembles New Animated Series for the Hulk and Avengers". Comic Book Resources. This version is a 17-year-old S.H.I.E.L.D. operative and member of the Avengers. When the latter were brought together to defeat the Red Skull, he was originally offered to be War Machine, but turned it down in favor of being the Falcon. Additionally, Wilson's wing pack is capable of assuming a "Redwing Mode", wherein it detaches itself and flies autonomously. During season four, Wilson is kidnapped by Kang the Conqueror and spends years in the future working to stop a black hole from destroying the Earth before eventually returning to the present.
 Additionally, Joaquin Torres / Falcon makes a cameo appearance in the season three episode "Into the Future". This version is a resistance fighter who hails from a future ruled by Kang.
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man animated series, voiced again by Bumper Robinson.
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears in Lego Marvel Super Heroes: Maximum Overload, voiced again by Bumper Robinson.
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears in Marvel Future Avengers, voiced by Takuya Eguchi in Japanese and by Bumper Robinson in English.

Marvel Cinematic Universe

 Anthony Mackie portrays Sam Wilson as the Falcon and later as Captain America in live-action media set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, starting with Captain America: The Winter Soldier. This version is a veteran United States Air Force Pararescueman who wields a pair of submachine guns and flies using a jet pack with articulated wings. He also has a drone nicknamed Redwing, which he can remotely operate. 
 Additionally, Joaquin Torres appears in the miniseries The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, portrayed by Danny Ramirez. This version is a first lieutenant in the USAF and a friend of Wilson's who eventually receives the latter's damaged wingsuit. 
Mackie will reprise the role in Captain America: New World Order.

Video games
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears as a playable character in the Marvel Super Hero Squad video game and its sequel Marvel Super Hero Squad: The Infinity Gauntlet, voiced again by Alimi Ballard.
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears as a playable character in Marvel Super Hero Squad: Comic Combat, voiced once again by Alimi Ballard.
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears as a playable character in Marvel Super Hero Squad Online.
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears as a DLC character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes,Cl.eb-cdn.com.au voiced by Andrew Kishino.
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears in Marvel: Avengers Alliance.Zalben, Alex (March 8, 2014). "Exclusive: Marvel's 'Avengers Alliance' Gets 'Winter Soldier' And 'Guardians of The Galaxy' Upgrade". MTV. He appears in the 17th Spec Ops, which is loosely based on Captain America: The Winter Soldier.
 The MCU version of Sam Wilson / Falcon appears as an assist character in Marvel Heroes,"Team-Up Heroes FAQ (Page 1)" . Marvel Heroes. March 25, 2014. voiced by Bumper Robinson. Additionally, an alternate universe version as Captain America was added later to the game.
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears as a playable character in Disney Infinity: Marvel Super Heroes, voiced again by Bumper Robinson. Falcon also appears in Disney Infinity 3.0.
 The MCU version of Sam Wilson / Falcon appears as a playable character in Marvel: Future Fight. Additionally, an alternate universe version of Wilson who became Captain America was added later to celebrate the Fourth of July.
 Sam Wilson as Falcon and Captain America appear as separate playable characters in Lego Marvel's Avengers, both voiced by Anthony Mackie. He is initially available in his Classic and Captain America: The Winter Soldier designs, with his Captain America: Civil War appearance being available through DLC.
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears as a playable character in Playmation: Avengers.
 A teenage version of Sam Wilson / Falcon appears as a playable character in Marvel Avengers Academy, voiced by ASAP Rocky. 
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears as a playable character in Marvel Puzzle Quest, with his Captain America appearance being added to the game in a later update.
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears as a playable character in Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order, voiced again by Bumper Robinson.

Miscellaneous
 Sam Wilson / Falcon appears in the Marvel Universe: LIVE! arena stage show."Marvel Universe LIVE! Character Designs". Newsarama. November 25, 2013
 Sam Wilson / Captain America appears as a meet-and-greet character at Avengers Campus.Celebrate Our New Captain America with a First Look at New Products Inspired by 'The Falcon and The Winter Soldier'

Reception
Wilson was placed as the 96th greatest comic book hero by IGN, which opined that the partnership between him and Steve Rogers forms one of the greatest crime-fighting duos in comics,"#96 – The Falcon". IGN's Top 100 Comic Book Heroes of All Time. IGN. Retrieved June 12, 2012. and as #45 on their list of the "Top 50 Avengers".

 Collected editions 

 As Falcon 
+TitleMaterial CollectedPublished DateISBNCaptain America Epic Collection: The Coming of... The FalconTales of Suspense #97-99, Captain America (vol. 1) #100-119October 4, 2016Avengers: FalconFalcon (vol. 1) #1-4; Marvel Premiere #49; Captain America #117-119 and material from Captain America #220, #276-278March 18, 2014Captain America & the Falcon: Secret EmpireCaptain America (vol. 1) #169-176January 11, 2006Captain America & the Falcon: NomadCaptain America (vol. 1) #177-186January 10, 2007Captain America & the Falcon: MadbombCaptain America (vol. 1) #193-200August 1, 2004Captain America & the Falcon: The SwineCaptain America (vol. 1) #206-214, Annual #3-4November 29, 2006Captain America & the Falcon Vol. 1: Two AmericasCaptain America and the Falcon #1-4October 1, 2004Avengers Disassembled: Captain AmericaCaptain America and the Falcon #5-7 and Captain America (vol. 4) #29-32December 29, 2004Captain America & the Falcon Vol. 2: Brothers and KeepersCaptain America and the Falcon #8-14July 6, 2005Captain America & the Falcon by Christopher Priest: The Complete CollectionCaptain America and the Falcon #1-14January 25, 2016Falcon & Winter Soldier: Cut Off One HeadFalcon & Winter Soldier #1-5February 4, 2021Falcon: Take FlightFalcon (vol. 2) #1-8July 31, 2018

 As Captain America 
+TitleMaterial CollectedPublished DateISBNAll-New Captain America: Fear HimAll-New Captain America: Fear Him #1-4, Captain America #280, Avengers (vol. 2) #64June 17, 2015All-New Captain America Volume 1: Hydra AscendantAll-New Captain America #1-6July 7, 2015Amazing Spider-Man/Inhuman/All-New Captain America: Inhuman ErrorAll-New Captain America Special #1 and Amazing Spiderman Special #1, Inhuman Special #1February 9, 2016Captain America: Sam Wilson Vol. 1: Not My Captain AmericaCaptain America: Sam Wilson #1-6May 3, 2016Captain America: Sam Wilson Vol. 2: StandoffCaptain America: Sam Wilson #7-8 and Avengers Standoff Assault on Pleasant Hill: Alpha and OmegaOctober 11, 2016Captain America: Sam Wilson Vol. 3: Civil War IICaptain America: Sam Wilson #9-13January 26, 2017Captain America: Sam Wilson Vol. 4: #TakebacktheshieldCaptain America: Sam Wilson #14-17 and Captain America #344May 2, 2017Captain America: Sam Wilson Vol. 5: End of the LineCaptain America: Sam Wilson #18-21 and Avengers #326August 9, 2017Captain America: Sam Wilson - The Complete Collection Vol. 1Captain America (vol. 4) #25, All-New Captain America: Fear Him #1-4, All-New Captain America #1-6, Amazing Spiderman Special #1, Inhuman Special #1, All-New Captain America Special #1, Captain America: Sam Wilson #1-6February 4, 2020Captain America: Sam Wilson - The Complete Collection Vol. 2Captain America: Sam Wilson #7-24, Captain America (vol. 8) #25, Generations: Sam Wilson Captain America & Steve Rogers Captain America #1February 24, 2021Captain America & the Mighty Avengers Vol. 1: Open for BusinessCaptain America & The Mighty Avengers #1-7July 7, 2015Captain America & the Mighty Avengers Vol. 2: Last DaysCaptain America & The Mighty Avengers #8-9 and Captain Britain & The Mighty Defenders #1-2, Avengers Assemble #15AUOctober 21, 2015United States of Captain AmericaUnited States of Captain America #1-5January 11, 2022Captain America: Symbol of Truth Vol. 1: HomelandCaptain America: Symbol of Truth #1-6December 20, 2022

See also
 List of S.H.I.E.L.D. members
 List of African-American firsts

 Notes 

References

External links
 World of Black Heroes: Falcon Biography
 

Category:African-American superheroes
Category:Avengers (comics) characters
Category:Black characters in animation
Category:Black characters in films
Category:Black people in comics
Category:Captain America characters
Category:Characters created by Gene Colan
Category:Characters created by Stan Lee
Category:Comics characters introduced in 1969
Category:Fictional characters from Manhattan
Category:Fictional empaths
Category:Fictional fighter pilots
Category:Fictional military strategists
Category:Fictional shield fighters
Category:Fictional United States Air Force personnel
Category:Incarnations of Captain America
Category:Marvel Comics American superheroes
Category:Marvel Comics characters who have mental powers
Category:Marvel Comics male superheroes
Category:Marvel Comics martial artists
Category:Marvel Comics military personnel
Category:Marvel Comics sidekicks
Category:Marvel Comics telepaths
Category:S.H.I.E.L.D. agents
Category:Superhero film characters
Category:United States-themed superheroes