Stingray (Walter Newell) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.

Publication history

The character first appears as Walter Newell in Tales to Astonish #95 (Sep. 1967) and as Stingray in Prince Namor, the Sub-Mariner #19 (Nov. 1969).

Roy Thomas publicly stated the characters creation, "I needed a villain for Sub Mariner, and wanted an underwater type (just like others I devised, like Tiger Shark and Orka the Human Killer Whale and Commander Kraken) who created a costume for his sub-sea life.  I think Marie Severin designed the costume pretty much on her own."

Fictional character biography
Walter Newell first appears in the title Tales to Astonish  as an oceanographer working for the United States government. The character encounters the human/Atlantean hybrid hero Namor the Sub-Mariner and his lover Lady Dorma, while supervising the construction of a domed sub-sea city whose purpose is to harvest food for mankind. The city, however, is destroyed by the villain the Plunderer.Tales to Astonish #95 (Sep. 1967). Marvel Comics. Newell becomes a perennial character in the title Prince Namor, the Sub-Mariner and aids the hero and Dorma against the villain Tiger SharkPrince Namor, the Sub-Mariner #16 (Aug. 1969). Marvel Comics. and is coerced by the government into investigating the disappearance of water from the Earth's oceans. This is attributed to aliens who are believed to be in league with Namor. Ordered to capture Namor, Newell develops a suit based on the form of the sea creature the manta ray, and as 'Stingray' captures Namor, who was weakened at the time. Newell, however, believes Namor to be innocent and allows him to escape.Prince Namor, the Sub-Mariner #19 (Nov. 1969). Marvel Comics.

Stingray aids Namor and the Inhuman Triton against a group of Atlanteans who destroy an ocean liner and falsely claim to have done so for Namor. The culprit is revealed to be Atlantean warlord Attuma, who is eventually defeated.Prince Namor, the Sub-Mariner #31 (Nov. 1970). Marvel Comics. Stingray assists Namor in a search for his father Leonard Mackenzie, with Mackenzie being accidentally killed in a battle with villains Llyra and Tiger Shark.Prince Namor, the Sub-Mariner #39 (July 1971) & #41 – 45 (Sep. 1971 – Jan. 1972). Marvel Comics.

After brief appearances in titles the HulkHulk #221 (Mar. 1978). Marvel Comics. and Defenders respectively,Defenders #62 – 64 (Aug. – Oct. 1978). Marvel Comics. Newell becomes a regular guest-star in the title Marvel Two-In-One. The character moves his oceanographic facilities and research to Hydro-Base, an artificial island previously used by the insane ecologist Doctor Hydro (occupied by Dr. Henry Croft and the passengers of an airplane, who were captured by Hydro and changed into merfolk known as the Hydro-Men).Marvel Two-In-One #64 (June 1980). Marvel Comics. As Stingray, Newell aids Fantastic Four member the Thing; Triton and heroine the Scarlet Witch against the villains the Serpent Squad and company Roxxon Oil to prevent them from obtaining the artifact the Serpent Crown.Marvel Two-in-One #64 – 66 (June – Aug. 1980). Marvel Comics. Stingray is present when Mister Fantastic cures Croft and the other passengers, and aids the Thing, and Inhumans Gorgon and Karnak against Maelstrom's Minions, who steal a dose of the healing compound.Marvel Two-in-One #71 (Jan. 1981). Marvel Comics.

Newell marries Diane Arliss, the sister of Todd Arliss (the real name of villain Tiger Shark)Marvel Two-in-One #74 (Apr. 1981). Marvel Comics. and leased part of Hydro-Base to superhero team the Avengers, and becomes an associate member of the team.Avengers #262 (Dec. 1985). Marvel Comics. During the first "Armor Wars" storyline, Avenger Iron Man confronts Stingray, mistakenly believing that Newell's suit was based on technology stolen from Stark Enterprises, forcing Stark to publicly fire Iron Man to protect his company from being affected by his current actions after he confirmed that Stingray's suit had been independently created.Iron Man #226 (Jan. 1988). Marvel Comics. Stingray aids the Avengers when Hydro-Base is invaded by Heavy Metal, a team of robot villains (consisting of the Super-Adaptoid, Machine Man, Awesome Android, TESS-One, and the Kree Sentry 459).Avengers #289 – 290 (Mar. – Apr. 1988). Marvel Comics.

During the "Acts of Vengeance" storyline, the Hydro-Base is damaged by an attack from Doctor Doom's Doombots and sinks, with Stingray aiding the Avenger Quasar in a salvage operation,Quasar #5 (Dec. 1989). Marvel Comics. and then joining a group of reserve Avengers in a battle against the Mad Thinker's Awesome Android.Avengers Spotlight #27 (Dec. 1989). Marvel Comics. In the title Marvel Comics Presents Stingray encounters now-brother-in-law Tiger Shark and after a battle work together to save Diane Arliss, who is trapped after a cave-in.Marvel Comics Presents #53 – 54 (July 1990) & #55 – 56 (Aug. 1990). Marvel Comics. The character aids the Avengers; Canadian super team Alpha Flight and the People's Protectorate during The Crossing Line storylineAvengers #319 – 324 (July – Oct. 1990). Marvel Comics. and with Namor battles a subterranean army.Namor Annual #1 (Jan. 1991). Marvel Comics.

After featuring in a Marvel Comics Presents solo storyMarvel Comics Presents #173 (Feb. 1995). Marvel Comics. the character appears in the first storyline of the third volume of the title the AvengersAvengers #1 – 3 (Feb. – Apr. 1998). Marvel Comics. and in the title Mutant X.Mutant X Annual #1 (May 1999). Marvel Comics. Stingray aids the Avengers in an extended storyline against futuristic villain Kang the Conqueror;Avengers #43 – 45 (Aug. – Sep. 2001); #46 (Nov. 2001); #52 – 55 (May – Aug. 2002). Marvel Comics. appears in the limited series Avengers/ThunderboltsAvengers/Thunderbolts #3 (June 2004). Issues #1 – 6 (May – Sep. 2004). Marvel Comics. and the final issues of the third volume of the Avengers.Avengers #501 – 503 (Oct. – Dec. 2004). Marvel Comics.

During the "Civil War" storyline, Stingray is a member of the Secret Avengers – led by Captain America – who oppose the Superhuman Registration Act.Civil War #5 (Nov. 2006). Issues # 1 – 7 (July 2007 – Jan. 2007). Marvel Comics. After Captain America's arrest and subsequent death, Stingray accepts Tony Stark's (Iron Man's alter ego) offer of a full pardon, and joins The Initiative.Iron Man/Captain America: Casualties of War #1 (Feb. 2007); Civil War: Battle Damage Report #1 (May 2007); Avengers: The Initiative #1 (June 2007). Marvel Comics.

The character appears in another solo story in the second volume of Marvel Comics PresentsMarvel Comics Presents vol. 2, #11 (Sep. 2008) and in an ongoing basis in the title Avengers: The Initiative.Avengers: The Initiative #3 (Aug. 2007); #8 (Feb. 2008); #10 (May 2008); #14 – 15 (Aug. – Sep. 2008); #21 – 23 (Feb. – Mar. 2009); #23 (June 2009). Marvel Comics.

During the "AXIS" storyline, Stingray is among the heroes recruited by an inverted Doctor Doom to join his team of Avengers. This group tries to focus on the innocent people put in danger where Scarlet Witch, now uncaring of morality, attacks Latveria. Stingray does his part by rescuing several people from a debris-filled river. His actions earn him the respect of U.S. Agent.Avengers World #15 (2015). Marvel Comics.

As part of the "All-New, All-Different Marvel," Stingray is seen as part of Deadpool's Mercs for Money.Deadpool vol. 4 #1. Marvel Comics. It is later revealed that Stingray is actually a double agent assigned to spy on Deadpool's team by Captain America.Deadpool vol. 4 #3. Marvel Comics.

During the "Secret Empire" storyline, Stingray appears as a member of the Underground which is a resistance movement following Hydra's takeover of the United States.Secret Empire #1 (June 2017). Marvel Comics.

Stingray and Diane were later on a cruise that was attacked by Tiger Shark. Their fight took place underwater until Namor crashed it demanding their allegiance. When Stingray tried to reason with Namor, he is attacked by the War Sharks summoned by Namor forcing Tiger Shark to side with Namor. This attack left him near-death, but he survived as confirmed when the Avengers confronted Namor and the Defenders of the Deep about this action.Avengers Vol. 8 #9–10. Marvel Comics.

During the "Iron Man 2020" event, Stingray fought Captain Barracuda and his army of Robo-Buccaneers at the Bermuda Triangle. The battle was crashed by Machinesmith who persuaded the Robo-Buccaneers to join the A.I. Army. As the Robo-Buccaneers take up the offer and leave with Machinesmith, Stingray states to a confused Captain Barracuda that he will have to knock him out now.Iron Man 2020 Vol. 2 #2. Marvel Comics.

Powers and abilities
Walter Newell designed and wears the Stingray battlesuit, an armored exoskeleton suit composed of a superhard artificial cartilage designed mainly for underwater use. The Stingray battlesuit enhances his strength and durability to superhuman levels, which allow him to operate within the crushing pressures of the ocean depths. His suit is equipped with an oxygen-diffusing system providing breathable air almost indefinitely, allowing him to breathe underwater. The suit also gives him enhanced swimming speed and its streamlined wings allow him to glide through air for great distances. The suit's chief offensive weapon is a powerful electrical discharge device built into the exoskeleton, able to project bolts of up to 20,000 volts through air or water and released through the gloves.

Walter Newell has a gifted intellect, and has a Ph.D. in oceanography. He is an experienced oceanographer, and a skilled inventor of experimental oceanographic equipment.

Other versions
Age of Apocalypse
In the Age of Apocalypse reality, Stingray is the captain of the submarine Excalibur which transports refugees to Avalon.X-Calibre #2 (1995). Marvel Comics.

Marvel Zombies
Stingray is seen as part of the zombified horde of heroes in Ultimate Fantastic Four.Ultimate Fantastic Four #21–23 (2005). Marvel Comics.

Mutant X
In the Mutant X reality, Stingray is a member of the Defenders. Stingray was on a mission in Atlantis when the Sentinels attack Avengers Mansion. He joined up with the Defenders to keep the Goblin Queen from getting into the Nexus of All Realities.Mutant X #32 (June 2001). Marvel Comics.

Secret Wars
During the "Secret Wars" storyline, a version of Stingray resides in the futuristic Battleworld domain of Technopolis (which is based on a world in which everyone wears armors to live and survive due to an unknown airborne virus). This version is a spy outfitted with an advanced suit of armor developed by Arno Stark. He is sent to spy on Kiri Oshiro by Arno Stark and Wilson Fisk and ends up trying to kill the girl and her friend Lila Rhodes after stating that he can't leave behind any witnesses. Kiri manages to defeat Stingray before he can kill Lila.Armor Wars #2. Marvel Comics.

In other media
Television
 Stingray appears in the Iron Man animated television series episode "Armor Wars" Pt. 2, voiced by Tom Kane. This version is a naval command officer who can use water and air to his advantage. Iron Man attacks him, believing his armor was based on stolen Stark Enterprises armor designs, only to discover soon after this was not true.

Video games
 Stingray appears in the video game Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2. He helps Captain America, Captain Marvel, Doctor Strange, the Hulk, and Thor claim a shard of the Nexus of All Realities from Attuma.

Reception

Newsarama ranked Stingray as the tenth worst Avengers member, describing Stingray as "a guy in a cape with all the powers of a marine biologist."

References

External links
 Stingray at Marvel.com

Category:Avengers (comics) characters
Category:Characters created by Bill Everett
Category:Characters created by Roy Thomas
Category:Comics characters introduced in 1969
Category:Marvel Comics characters with superhuman strength
Category:Marvel Comics superheroes